Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003192.htm    
                                Description: A tremor is a type of shaking movement. A tremor is most often noticed in the hands and arms. It may affect any body part, including the head or vocal cords.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Tremor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003192.htm

# Tremor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A tremor is a type of shaking movement. A tremor is most often noticed in the
hands and arms. It may affect any body part, including the head or vocal
cords.

## Considerations

Tremors can happen at any age. They are more common in older people. Everyone
has some tremor when they move their hands. Stress, fatigue, anger, fear,
caffeine, and smoking may make this type of tremor worse.

A tremor that does not go away over time may be a sign of a medical problem
and should be checked by your health care provider.

Essential tremor is the most common tremor. The shaking most often involves
small, rapid movements. It usually occurs when you are trying to do something,
such as reaching for an object or writing. This type of tremor may also run in
families.

## Causes

Tremor may be caused by:

    * Certain medicines
    * Brain, nerve, or movement disorders, including uncontrolled muscle movements (dystonia)
    * Brain tumor 
    * Alcohol useÂ or alcohol withdrawal 
    * Multiple sclerosis
    * Muscle tiredness or weakness
    * Normal aging
    * Overactive thyroid
    * Parkinson disease
    * Stress, anxiety, or fatigueÂ 
    * Stroke
    * Too much coffee or other caffeinated drink

## Home Care

Your provider will likely suggest self-care measures to help with daily life.

For tremors caused by stress, try ways to relax, such as meditation or
breathing exercises. For tremors of any cause, avoid caffeine and get enough
sleep.

For tremors caused by a medicine, talk to your provider about stopping the
drug, reducing the dosage, or switching to another medicine. Do not change or
stop medicines on your own.

For tremors caused by alcohol use, seek treatment to help you stop drinking
alcohol.

Severe tremors may make it hard to do daily activities. You may need help with
these activities.

Devices that may help include:

    * Buying clothes with Velcro fasteners or using button hooks
    * Cooking or eating with utensils that have a larger handle
    * Using a sippy cup to drink
    * Wearing slip-on shoes and using shoehornsÂ 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if your tremor:

    * Is worse at rest and gets better with movement such as when you reach for something
    * Is prolonged, severe, or interferes with your life
    * Occurs with other symptoms, such as headache, weakness, abnormal tongue movements, muscle tightening, or other movements that you cannot control

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your doctor will perform a physical exam, including a detailed brain and
nervous system (neurologic) examination. You may be asked questions to help
your doctor find the cause of your tremors:

The following tests may be ordered:

    * Blood tests such as CBC, blood differential, thyroid function tests, and glucose test
    * EMG or nerve conduction studiesÂ to check the functions of the muscles and nerves
    * Head CT scan
    * MRI of the head
    * Urine tests 

Once a cause of the tremor has been determined, treatment will be prescribed.

You may not need treatment unless the tremor interferes with your daily
activities or causes embarrassment.

Treatment depends on the cause. Tremor caused by a medical condition, such as
hyperthyroidism, will likely get better when the condition is treated.

If the tremor is caused by a certain medicine, stopping the drug will usually
help it go away. Never stop taking any medicine without first talking to your
doctor.

You may be prescribed medicines to help relieve symptoms. How well medicines
work depends on your overall health and the cause of the tremor.

In some cases, surgery is done to relieve the tremors.

## Alternative Names

Shaking; Tremor - hand; Hand tremor; Tremor - arms; Kinetic tremor; Intention
tremor; Postural tremor; Essential tremor

## Images

    * ![Muscular atrophy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9680t.jpg)Muscular atrophy

## References

Fasano A, Deuschl G. Therapeutic advances in tremor. _Mov Disord_.
2015;30:1557-1565. PMID: 26293405. www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26293405.

Jankovic J, Lang AE. Diagnosis and assessment of Parkinson disease and other
movement disorders. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds.
_Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 23.

Raftery AT, Lim E, Ostor AJK. Tremor. In: Raftery AT, Lim E, Ostor AJK, eds.
_Churchill's Pocketbook of Differential Diagnosis_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2014:468-470.

## Review Date 4/30/2018

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, Attending Neurologist and Assistant
Professor of Clinical Neurology, SUNY Stony Brook, School of Medicine, Stony
Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hand Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HandInjuries_thumb.jpg)Hand Injuries
and Disorders _Read more_

![Tremor](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Tremor_thumb.jpg)Tremor _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

