Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000564.htm    
                                Description: A tremor is a type of shaking in your body. Most tremors are in the hands and arms. But, they may affect any body part, even your head or voice.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Tremor - self-care

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000564.htm

# Tremor - self-care

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A tremor is a type of shaking in your body. Most tremors are in the hands and
arms. But, they may affect any body part, even your head or voice.

## More About Tremors

For many people with a tremor, the cause is not found. Some types of tremors
run in families. A tremor may also be part of a long-term brain or nerve
disorder.

Some medicines can cause tremors. Talk with your health care provider if a
medicine may be causing your tremor. Your provider may lower the dosage or
switch you to another medicine. DO NOT change or stop any medicine before you
talk with your provider.

You may not need treatment for your tremor unless it interferes with your
daily life or is embarrassing for you.

## Lifestyle Changes can Help

Most tremors become worse when you are tired.

    * Try not to do too much during the day.
    * Get enough sleep. Ask your provider about how you can change your sleep habits if you have problems sleeping.

Stress and anxiety can also make your tremor worse. These things may lower
your stress level:

    * Meditation, deep relaxation, or breathing exercises
    * Reducing your caffeine intake

Alcohol use can also cause tremors. If it is the cause of your tremors, seek
treatment and support. Your provider can help you find a treatment program
that may help you stop drinking.

## Managing Your Tremor Day-to-day

Tremors can worsen over time. They may begin to interfere with your ability to
do your daily activities. To help in your day-to-day activities:

    * Buy clothes with Velcro fasteners instead of buttons or hooks.
    * Cook or eat with utensils that have larger handles that are easier to grip.
    * Drink from half-filled cups to avoid spilling.
    * Use straws to drink so you do not have to pick up your glass.
    * Wear slip-on shoes and use shoehorns.
    * Wear a heavier bracelet or watch. It may reduce a hand or arm tremor. 

## Medicines to Treat Tremors

Your provider may prescribe medicines to relieve your tremor symptoms. How
well any medicine works may depend on your body and the cause of your tremor.

Some of these medicines have side effects. Tell your provider if you have
these symptoms or any other symptoms you are concerned about:

    * Fatigue or drowsiness
    * Stuffy nose
    * Slow heart rate (pulse)
    * Wheezing or trouble breathing
    * Problems concentrating
    * Walking or balance problems
    * Nausea 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

    * Your tremor is severe and it interferes with your life.
    * Your tremor occurs with other symptoms, such as headache, weakness, abnormal tongue motion, muscle tightening, or other movements that you cannot control.
    * You are having side effects from your medicine. 

## Alternative Names

Shaking - self-care; Essential tremor - self-care; Familial tremor - self-care

## References

Jankovic J, Lang AE. Diagnosis and assessment of Parkinson disease and other
movement disorders. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds.
_Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 23.

Lang AE. Other movement disorders. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 410.

Schneider SA, Deuschl G. The treatment of tremor. _Neurotherapeutics_.
2014:11(1);128-138. PMID: 24142589 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24142589.

## Review Date 4/15/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Tremor

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

