Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000762.htm    
                                Description: Essential tremor (ET) is a type of involuntary shaking movement. It has no identified cause. Involuntary means you shake without trying to do so and are not able to stop the shaking at will.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Essential tremor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000762.htm

# Essential tremor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Essential tremor (ET) is a type of involuntary shaking movement. It has no
identified cause. Involuntary means you shake without trying to do so and are
not able to stop the shaking at will.

## Causes

ET is the most common type of tremor. Everyone has some tremor, but the
movements are often so small that they can't be seen. ET affects both men and
women. It is most common in people older than 65 years.

The exact cause of ET is unknown. Research suggests that the part of the brain
that controls muscle movements does not work correctly in people with ET.

If an ET occurs in more thanÂ one member of a family, it is called a familial
tremor. This type of ET is passed down through families (inherited). This
suggests that genes play a role in its cause.

Familial tremor is usually a dominant trait. This means that you only need to
get the gene fromÂ one parent to develop the tremor. It often starts in early
middle age, but may be seen in people who are older or younger, or even in
children.

## Symptoms

The tremor is more likely to be noticed in the forearm and hands. The arms,
head, eyelids, or other muscles may also be affected. The tremor rarely occurs
in the legs or feet. A person with ET may have trouble holding or using small
objects such as silverware or a pen.

The shaking most often involves small, rapid movements occurring 4 to 12 times
a second.

Specific symptoms may include:

    * Head nodding
    * Shaking or quivering sound to the voice if the tremor affects the voice box
    * Problems with writing, drawing, drinking from a cup, or using tools if the tremor affects the hands

The tremors may:

    * Occur during movement (action-related tremor) and may be less noticeable with rest
    * Come and go, but often get worse with age
    * Worsen with stress, caffeine, lack of sleep, and certain medicines
    * Not affect both sides of the body the same way
    * Improve slightly by drinking a small amount of alcohol

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider can make the diagnosis by performing a physical exam
and asking about your medical and personal history.

Tests may be needed to rule out other reasons for the tremors such as:

    * Smoking and smokeless tobacco
    * Overactive thyroid (hyperthyroidism)
    * Suddenly stopping alcohol after drinking a lot for a long time (alcohol withdrawal)
    * Too much caffeine
    * Use of certain medicines
    * Nervousness or anxiety

Blood tests and imaging studies (such as a CT scan of the head, brain MRI, and
x-rays) are usually normal.

## Treatment

Treatment may not be needed unless the tremors interfere with your daily
activities or cause embarrassment.

HOME CARE

For tremors made worse by stress, try techniques that help you relax. For
tremors of any cause, avoid caffeine and get enough sleep.

For tremors caused or made worse by a medicine, talk to your provider about
stopping the medicine, reducing the dosage, or switching. Do not change or
stop any medicine on your own.

Severe tremors make it harder to do daily activities. You may need help with
these activities. Things that can help include:

    * Buying clothes with Velcro fasteners, or using button hooks
    * Cooking or eating with utensils that have a larger handle
    * Using straws to drink
    * Wearing slip-on shoes and using shoehorns 

MEDICINES FOR TREMOR

Medicines may help relieve symptoms. The most commonly used drugs include:

    * Propranolol, a beta blocker
    * Primidone, a drug used to treat seizures 

These drugs can have side effects.

    * Propranolol may cause fatigue, stuffy nose, or slow heartbeat, and it may make asthma worse.
    * Primidone may cause drowsiness, problems concentrating, nausea, and problems with walking, balance, and coordination. 

Other medicines that may reduce tremors include:

    * Antiseizure medicines
    * Mild tranquilizers
    * Blood pressure medicines called calcium-channel blockers 

Botox injections given in the hand may be tried to reduce tremors.

SURGERY

In severe cases, surgery may be tried. This may include:

    * Focusing high-powered x-rays on a small area of the brain (stereotactic radiosurgery)
    * Implanting a stimulating device in the brain to signal the area that controls movement 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

An ET is not a dangerous problem. But some people find the tremors annoying
and embarrassing. In some cases, it may be dramatic enough to interfere with
work, writing, eating, or drinking.

## Possible Complications

Sometimes, the tremors affect the vocal cords, which may lead to speech
problems.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You have a new tremor
    * Your tremor makes it hard to perform daily activities
    * You have side effects from theÂ medicines used to treat your tremor 

## Prevention

Alcoholic beverages in small quantities may decrease tremors. But alcohol use
disorder may develop, especially if you have a family history of such
problems.

## Alternative Names

Tremor - essential; Familial tremor; Tremor - familial; Benign essential
tremor; Shaking - essential tremor

## Images

    * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system

## References

Hariz M, Blomstedt P. Surgical management of tremor. In: Winn HR, ed. _Youmans
and Winn Neurological Surgery_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap
87.

Jankovic J. Parkinson disease and other movement disorders. In: Daroff RB,
Jankovic J, Maziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical
Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 96.

Lang AE. Other movement disorders. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 410.

## Review Date 4/30/2018

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, Attending Neurologist and Assistant
Professor of Clinical Neurology, SUNY Stony Brook, School of Medicine, Stony
Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Tremor](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Tremor_thumb.jpg)Tremor _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

