Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007466.htm    
                                Description: You should visit your health care provider regularly, even if you feel healthy. The purpose of these visits is to:    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Health screenings for men over age 65

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007466.htm

# Health screenings for men over age 65

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You should visit your health care provider regularly, even if you feel
healthy. The purpose of these visits is to:

    * Screen for medical issues
    * Assess your risk for future medical problems
    * Encourage a healthy lifestyle
    * Update vaccinations
    * Help you get to know your provider in case of an illness 

## Information

Even if you feel fine, you should still see your provider for regular
checkups. These visits can help you avoid problems in the future. For example,
the only way to find out if you have high blood pressure is to have it checked
regularly. High blood sugar and high cholesterol levels also may not have any
symptoms in the early stages. A simple blood test can check for these
conditions.

There are specific times when you should see your provider. Below are
screening guidelines for men age 65 and older.

ABDOMINAL AORTIC ANEURYSM SCREENING

    * If you are between ages 65 and 75 and have smoked, you should have an ultrasound to screen for abdominal aortic aneurysms.
    * Other men should discuss this screening with their provider. 

BLOOD PRESSURE SCREENING

    * Have your blood pressure checked at least once every year. If the top number (systolic number) is between 120 and 139 or the bottom number (diastolic number) is between 80 and 89 mm Hg or higher, then continue to have it checked every year.
    * If the top number is greater than 140, or the bottom number is greater than 90, schedule an appointment with your provider.
    * If you have diabetes, heart disease, kidney problems, or certain other conditions, you may need to be checked more often, at least once a year.
    * Watch for blood pressure screenings in your area. Ask your provider if you can stop in to have your blood pressure checked. You can also check your blood pressure using the automated machines at local grocery stores and pharmacies. 

CHOLESTEROL SCREENING AND HEART DISEASE PREVENTION

    * Your cholesterol should be checked at least every 5 years if levels are normal.
    * If you have high cholesterol, diabetes, heart disease, kidney problems, or certain other conditions, you may need to be checked more often. 

LUNG CANCER SCREENING

The US Preventive Services Task Force recommends annual screening for lung
cancer with low-dose computed tomography (LDCT) in adults ages 55 to 80 years
who:

    * Have a 30 pack-year smoking history AND
    * Currently smoke or have quit within the past 15 years 

COLORECTAL CANCER SCREENING

Until age 75,Â you should have screening for colorectal cancer on a regular
basis. If you are age 76 or older, you should ask your provider if you need to
be screened. Several tests are available for colorectal cancer screening:Â

    * A fecal occult blood (stool-based) test done every year
    * A fecal immunochemical test (FIT) every year  

    * A stool DNA test every 3 years.  

    * Flexible sigmoidoscopy every 5 years
    * Double contrast barium enema every 5 years  

    * CT colonography (virtual colonoscopy) every 5 years  

    * Colonoscopy every 10 years 

You may need a colonoscopy more often if you have risk factors for colorectal
cancer, such as:

    * Ulcerative colitis
    * A personal or family history of cancer of the colon or rectum
    * A history of growths called adenomatous polyps

DIABETES SCREENING

    * If you are age 65 or older and in good health, you should be screened for diabetes every 3 years.
    * If you are overweight and have other risk factors for diabetes, ask your provider if you should be screened more often. 

DENTAL EXAM

    * Go to the dentist once or twice every year for an exam and cleaning. Your dentist will evaluate if you have a need for more frequent visits. 

EYE EXAM

    * Have an eye exam every 1 to 2 years.
    * Have an eye exam at least every year if you have diabetes. 

HEARING TEST

    * Have your hearing tested if you have symptoms of hearing loss. 

IMMUNIZATIONS

    * If you are age 65 or older, get a pneumococcal vaccine.
    * You should get a flu shot each year.
    * Get a tetanus-diphtheria booster every 10 years.
    * You may get a shingles, or herpes zoster, vaccine at age 50 or older. 

OSTEOPOROSIS SCREENING

    * If you have risk factors for osteoporosis, you should check with your provider about screening. Risk factors can include long-term steroid use, low body weight, smoking, heavy alcohol use, a fracture after age 50, or a family history of osteoporosis.
    * Men age 70 and over should consider getting bone mineral density testing. 

PROSTATE CANCER SCREENING

    * Talk with your provider about prostate cancer screening, especially for men over age 70.
    * The potential benefits of PSA testing as a routine screening test have not been definitively shown to outweigh the harms of testing and treatment.
    * Prostate examinations are no longer routinely done on men with no symptoms. 

PHYSICAL EXAMS

    * Have a yearly physical exam.
    * Your provider will check your weight, height, and body mass index (BMI). 

During the exam, your provider will ask you about:

    * Your medicines and risk for interactions
    * Alcohol and tobacco use
    * Diet and exercise
    * Safety, such as using a seat belt
    * Whether you have had falls  

    * Depression 

## Alternative Names

Health maintenance visit - men - over age 65; Physical exam - men - over age
65; Yearly exam - men - over age 65; Checkup - men - over age 65; Men's health
- over age 65; Preventive care exam - men - over age 65

## Images

    * ![Fecal occult blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19814t.jpg)Fecal occult blood test

## References

American Academy of Ophthalmology website. Policy statement: frequency of
ocular examinations - 2015. www.aao.org/clinical-statement/frequency-of-
ocular-examinations. Updated March 2015. Accessed April 15, 2019.

American Dental Association website. Your top 9 questions about going to the
dentist - answered. www.mouthhealthy.org/en/dental-care-concerns/questions-
about-going-to-the-dentist. Accessed April 15, 2019.

American Diabetes Association. 2. Classification and diagnosis of diabetes:
standards of medical care in diabetes - 2019. _Diabetes Care._ 2019;42(Suppl
1):S13-S28. PMID: 30559228 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30559228.

Arnett DK, Blumenthal RS, Albert MA, et al. 2019 ACC/AHA guideline on the
primary prevention of cardiovascular disease. _Circulation._ 2019 Mar
17:CIR0000000000000678. PMID: 30879355 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30879355.

Atkins D, Barton M. The periodic health examination. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine._ 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2020:chap 12.

Cosman F, de Beur SJ, LeBoff MS, et al. Clinician's guide to prevention and
treatment of osteoporosis. _Osteoporos Int._ 2014;25(10):2359-2381. PMID:
25182228 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25182228.

Grundy SM, Stone NJ, Bailey AL, et al. 2018
AHA/ACC/AACVPR/AAPA/ABC/ACPM/ADA/AGS/APhA/ASPC/NLA/PCNA guideline on the
management of blood cholesterol: a report of the American College of
Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Clinical Practice
Guidelines. _J Am Coll Cardiol._ 2018 Nov 8. pii: S0735-1097(18)39034-X. PMID:
30423393 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30423393.

James PA, Oparil S, Carter BL, et al. 2014 evidence-based guideline for the
management of high blood pressure in adults: report from the panel members
appointed to the Eighth Joint National Committee (JNC 8). _JAMA._
2014;311(5):507-520. PMID: 24352797 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24352797.

Kim DK, Hunter P. Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices recommended
immunization schedule for adults aged 19 years or older - United States, 2019.
_MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep._ 2019;68(5):115-118. PMID: 30730868
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30730868.

Meschia JF, Bushnell C, Boden-Albala B, et al. Guidelines for the primary
prevention of stroke: a statement for healthcare professionals from the
American Heart Association/American Stroke Association. _Stroke._
2014;45(12):3754-3832. PMID: 25355838 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25355838.

Moyer VA; US Preventive Services Task Force. Screening for lung cancer: US
Preventive Services Task Force recommendation statement. _Ann Intern Med._
2014;160(5):330-338. PMID: 24378917 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24378917.

Ridker PM, Libby P, Buring JE. Risk markers and the primary prevention of
cardiovascular disease. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli
GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular
Medicine._ 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 45.

Siu AL; US Preventive Services Task Force. Screening for high blood pressure
in adults: US Preventive Services Task Force recommendation statement. _Ann
Intern Med._ 2015;163(10):778-786. PMID: 26458123
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26458123.

Smith RA, Andrews KS, Brooks D, et al. Cancer screening in the United States,
2019: a review of current American Cancer Society guidelines and current
issues in cancer screening. _CA Cancer J Clin._ 2019;69(3):184-210. PMID:
30875085 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30875085.

US Preventive Services Task Force, Bibbins-Domingo K, Grossman DC, Curry SJ,
et al. Screening for colorectal cancer: US Preventive Services Task Force
recommendation statement. _JAMA._ 2016;315(23):2564-2575. PMID: 27304597
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27304597.

US Preventive Services Task Force, Grossman DC, Curry SJ, et al. Screening for
prostate cancer: US Preventive Services Task Force recommendation statement.
_JAMA._ 2018;319(18):1901-1913. PMID: 29801017
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29801017.

## Review Date 5/12/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Internal review and
update on 04/15/2019 by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Health
Checkup](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HealthCheckup_thumb.jpg)Health Checkup
_Read more_

![Healthy
Aging](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HealthyAging2_thumb.jpg)Healthy Aging
_Read more_

![Men's Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MensHealth2_thumb.jpg)Men's
Health _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

