Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000210.htm    
                                Description: You are having a procedure to remove a cataract. A cataract occurs when the lens of the eye becomes cloudy and starts to block vision. Removing the cataract can help improve your vision.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cataracts - what to ask your doctor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000210.htm

# Cataracts - what to ask your doctor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You are having a procedure to remove a cataract. A cataract occurs when the
lens of the eye becomes cloudy and starts to block vision. Removing the
cataract can help improve your vision.

Below are some questions you may want to ask your health care provider to help
you take care of your eye after surgery.

## Questions

What is a cataract?

How will cataract surgery help my vision?

    * If I have cataracts in both eyes, can I have surgery on both eyes at the same time?
    * How long after surgery before I notice my vision is better?
    * Will I still need glasses after surgery? For distance? For reading? 

How do I get ready for surgery?

    * When do I need to stop eating and drinking before surgery?
    * Should I have a checkup with my regular provider before surgery?
    * Do I need to stop taking or change any of my medicines?
    * What else do I need to bring with me on the day of surgery? 

What happens during cataract surgery?

    * How long will the surgery take?
    * What type of anesthesia will I have? Will I feel any pain during the surgery?
    * How do the doctors make sure I won't move during cataract surgery?
    * Is the cataract removed with a laser?
    * Will I need a lens implant?
    * Are there different types of lens implants?
    * What are the risks of cataract surgery? 

What happens after cataract surgery?

    * Will I have to spend the night in the hospital? How long will I need to spend at the surgical center?
    * Will I have to wear an eye patch?
    * Will I need to take eye drops?
    * Can I shower or bathe at home?
    * What activities can I do while I recover? When will I be able to drive? When can I be sexually active?
    * Do I need to see the doctor for a follow-up visit? If so, when? 

## Alternative Names

What to ask your doctor about cataracts; Lens implants - what to ask your
doctor

## Images

    * ![Cataract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18012t.jpg)Cataract

## References

Crouch ER, Crouch ER, Grant TR. Ophthmalogy. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP, eds.
_Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 17.

Howes FW. Patient workup for cataract surgery. In: Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds.
_Ophthalmology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 5.4.

Wevill M. Epidemioloy, pathophysiology, causes, morphology, and visual effects
of cataract. In: Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds. _Ophthalmology_. 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 5.3.

## Read More

    * Adult cataract
    * Cataract removal
    * Vision problems

## Review Date 9/30/2018

Updated by: Audrey Tai, DO, MS, Assistant Clinical Professor (Voluntary),
University of California - Irvine, Irvine, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Cataract

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

