Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001615.htm    
                                Description: A congenital cataract is a clouding of the lens of the eye that is present at birth. The lens of the eye is normally clear. It focuses light that comes into the eye onto the retina.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Congenital cataract

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001615.htm

# Congenital cataract

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A congenital cataract is a clouding of the lens of the eye that is present at
birth. The lens of the eye is normally clear. It focuses light that comes into
the eye onto the retina.

## Causes

Unlike most cataracts, which occur with aging, congenital cataracts are
present at birth.

Congenital cataracts are rare. In most people, no cause can be found.

Congenital cataracts often occur as part of the following birth defects:

    * Chondrodysplasia syndrome
    * Congenital rubella
    * Conradi-HÃ¼nermann syndrome
    * Down syndrome (trisomy 21)
    * Ectodermal dysplasia syndrome
    * Familial congenital cataracts
    * Galactosemia
    * Hallermann-Streiff syndrome
    * Lowe syndrome
    * Marinesco-SjÃ¶gren syndrome
    * Pierre-Robin syndrome
    * Trisomy 13

## Symptoms

Congenital cataracts most often look different than other forms of cataract.

Symptoms may include:

    * An infant does not seem to be visually aware of the world around them (if cataracts are in both eyes)
    * Gray or white cloudiness of the pupil (which is normally black)
    * The "red eye" glow of the pupil is missing in photos, or is different between the 2 eyes
    * Unusual rapid eye movements (nystagmus) 

## Exams and Tests

To diagnose congenital cataract, the infant should have a complete eye exam by
an ophthalmologist. The infant may also need to be examined by a pediatrician
who is experienced in treating inherited disorders. Blood tests or x-rays may
also be needed.

## Treatment

If congenital cataracts are mild and do not affect vision, they may not need
to be treated, especially if they are in both eyes.

Moderate to severe cataracts that affect vision, or a cataract that is in only
1 eye, will need to be treated with cataract removal surgery. In most
(noncongenital) cataract surgeries, an artificial intraocular lens (IOL) is
inserted into the eye. The use of IOLs in infants is controversial. Without an
IOL, the infant will need to wear a contact lens.

Patching to force the child to use the weaker eye is often needed to prevent
amblyopia.

The infant may also need to be treated for the inherited disorder that is
causing the cataracts.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Removing a congenital cataract is usually a safe, effective procedure. The
child will need follow-up for vision rehabilitation. Most infants have some
level of "lazy eye" (amblyopia) before the surgery and will need to use
patching.

## Possible Complications

With cataract surgery there is a very slight risk of:

    * Bleeding
    * Infection
    * Inflammation 

Infants who have surgery for congenital cataracts are likely to develop
another type of cataract, which may need further surgery or laser treatment.

Many of the diseases that are associated with congenital cataract can also
affect other organs.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an urgent appointment with your baby's health care provider if:

    * You notice that the pupil of one or both eyes appears white or cloudy.
    * The child seems to ignore part of their visual world. 

## Prevention

If you have a family history of inheritable disorders that could cause
congenital cataracts, consider seeking genetic counseling.

## Alternative Names

Cataract - congenital

## Images

    * ![Eye](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1094t.jpg)Eye
    * ![Cataract - close-up of the eye](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1684t.jpg)Cataract - close-up of the eye
    * ![Rubella Syndrome](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17253t.jpg)Rubella syndrome
    * ![Cataract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18012t.jpg)Cataract

## References

Cioffi GA, Liebmann JM. Diseases of the visual system. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2020:chap 395.

Ãrge FH. Examination and common problems in the neonatal eye. In: Martin RJ,
Fanaroff AA, Walsh MC, eds. _Fanaroff and Martin's Neonatal-Perinatal
Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 95.

Wevill M. Epidemiology, pathophysiology, causes, morphology, and visual
effects of cataract. In: Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds. _Ophthalmology_. 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 5.3.

## Review Date 8/8/2019

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cataract](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cataract2_thumb.jpg)Cataract _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

