Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002957.htm    
                                Description: Cataract removal is surgery to remove a clouded lens (cataract) from the eye. Cataracts are removed to help you see better. The procedure almost always includes placing an artificial lens (IOL) in the    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cataract removal

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002957.htm

# Cataract removal

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cataract removal is surgery to remove a clouded lens (cataract) from the eye.
Cataracts are removed to help you see better. The procedure almost always
includes placing an artificial lens (IOL) in the eye.

## Description

Cataract surgery is an outpatient procedure. This means you likely do not have
to stay overnight at a hospital. The surgery is performed by an
ophthalmologist. This is a medical doctor who specializes in eye diseases and
eye surgery.

Adults are usually awake for the procedure. Numbing medicine (local
anesthesia) is given using eyedrops or a shot. This blocks pain. You will also
get medicine to help you relax. Children usually receive general anesthesia.
This is medicine that puts them into a deep sleep so that they are unable to
feel pain.

The doctor uses a special microscope to view the eye. A small cut (incision)
is made in the eye.

The lens is removed in one of the following ways, depending on the type of
cataract:

    * Phacoemulsification: With this procedure, the doctor uses a tool that produces sound waves to break up the cataract into small pieces. The pieces are then suctioned out. This procedure uses a very small incision.
    * Extracapsular extraction: The doctor uses a small tool to remove the cataract in mostly one piece. This procedure uses a larger incision.
    * Laser surgery: The doctor guides a machine that uses laser energy to make the incisions and soften the cataract. The rest of the surgery is much like phacoemulsification. Using the laser instead of a knife (scalpel) may speed recovery and be more accurate.

After the cataract is removed, a manmade lens, called an intraocular lens
(IOL), is usually placed into the eye to restore the focusing power of the old
lens (cataract). It helps improve your vision.

The doctor may close the incision with very small stitches. Usually, a self-
sealing (sutureless) method is used. If you have stitches, they may need to be
removed later.

The surgery lasts less than half an hour. Most times, just one eye is done. If
you have cataracts in both eyes, your doctor may suggest waiting at least 1 to
2 weeks between each surgery.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

The normal lens of the eye is clear (transparent). As a cataract develops, the
lens becomes cloudy. This blocks light from entering your eye. Without enough
light, you cannot see as clearly.

Cataracts are painless. They are most often seen in older adults. Sometimes,
children are born with them. Cataract surgery is usually done if you cannot
see well enough because of cataracts. Cataracts usually do not permanently
damage your eye, so you and your eye doctor can decide when surgery is right
for you.

## Risks

In rare cases, the entire lens cannot be removed. If this happens, a procedure
to remove all of the lens fragments will be done at a later time. Afterward,
vision can still be improved.

Very rare complications can include infection and bleeding. This can lead to
permanent vision problems.

## Before the Procedure

Before surgery, you will have a complete eye exam and eye tests by the
ophthalmologist.

The doctor will use ultrasound or a laser scanning device to measure your eye.
These tests help determine the best IOL for you. Usually, the doctor will try
to choose an IOL that can allow you to see without glasses or contact lenses
after surgery. Some IOLs give you both distance and near vision, but they are
not for everyone. Ask your doctor which one is best for you. Be sure you
understand what your vision will be like after the IOL is implanted. Also, be
sure to ask questions so that you will know what to expect of the surgery.

Your doctor may prescribe eyedrops before the surgery. Follow instructions
exactly on how to use the drops.

## After the Procedure

Before you go home, you may receive the following:

    * A patch to wear over your eye until the follow-up exam
    * Eyedrops to prevent infection, treat inflammation, and help with healing

You will need to have someone drive you home after surgery.

You will usually have a follow-up exam with your doctor the next day. If you
had stitches, you will need to make an appointment to have them removed.

Tips for recovering after cataract surgery:

    * Wear dark sunglasses outside after you remove the patch.
    * Wash your hands well before and after using eyedrops and touching your eye. Try not to get soap and water in your eye when you are bathing or showering for the first few days.
    * Light activities are best as you recover. Check with your doctor before doing any strenuous activity, resuming sexual activity, or driving.

Recovery takes about 2 weeks. If you need new glasses or contact lenses, you
can usually have them fitted at that time. Keep your follow-up visit with your
doctor.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most people do well and recover quickly after cataract surgery.

If a person has other eye problems, such as glaucoma or macular degeneration,
the surgery may be more difficult or the outcome may not be as good.

## Alternative Names

Cataract extraction; Cataract surgery

## Patient Instructions

    * Bathroom safety for adults
    * Cataracts - what to ask your doctor 
    * Preventing falls
    * Preventing falls - what to ask your doctor 

## Images

    * ![Eye](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1094t.jpg)Eye
    * ![Slit-lamp exam](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1140t.jpg)Slit-lamp exam
    * ![Cataract - close-up of the eye](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1684t.jpg)Cataract - close-up of the eye
    * ![Cataract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18012t.jpg)Cataract
    * ![Cataract surgery - series - Normal anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10210t.jpg)Cataract surgery - series

## References

American Academy of Ophthalmology website. Preferred Practice Patterns
Cataract and Anterior Segment Panel, Hoskins Center for Quality Eye Care.
Cataract in the adult eye PPP - 2016. www.aao.org/preferred-practice-
pattern/cataract-in-adult-eye-ppp-2016. Updated October 2016. Accessed
September 4, 2019.

National Eye Institute website. Facts about cataracts.
www.nei.nih.gov/health/cataract/cataract_facts. Updated August 3, 2019.
Accessed September 4, 2019.

Salmon JF. Lens. In: Salmon JF, ed. _Kanski's Clinical Ophthalmology_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 10.

Tipperman R. Cataracts. In: Gault JA, Vander JF, eds. _Ophthalmology Secrets
in Color_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 21.

## Review Date 8/8/2019

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cataract](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cataract2_thumb.jpg)Cataract _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

