Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003880.htm    
                                Description: The slit-lamp examination looks at structures that are at the front of the eye.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Slit-lamp exam

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003880.htm

# Slit-lamp exam

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The slit-lamp examination looks at structures that are at the front of the
eye.

## How the Test is Performed

The slit-lamp is a low-power microscope combined with a high-intensity light
source that can be focused as a thin beam.

You will sit in a chair with the instrument placed in front of you. You will
be asked to rest your chin and forehead on a support to keep your head steady.

The health care provider will examine your eyes, especially the eyelids,
cornea, conjunctiva, sclera, and iris. Often a yellow dye (fluorescein) is
used to help examine the cornea and tear layer. The dye is either added as an
eyedrop. Or, the provider may touch a fine strip of paper stained with the dye
to the white of your eye. The dye rinses out of the eye with tears as you
blink.

Next, drops may be placed in your eyes to widen (dilate) your pupils. The
drops take about 15 to 20 minutes to work. The slit-lamp examination is then
repeated using another small lens held close to the eye, so the back of the
eye can be examined.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is needed for this test.

## How the Test will Feel

Your eyes will be sensitive to light for a few hours after the exam if
dilating drops are used.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is used to examine the:

    * Conjunctiva (the thin membrane that covers the inner surface of the eyelid and the white part of the eyeball)
    * Cornea (the clear outer lens on the front of the eye)
    * Eyelids
    * Iris (colored part of the eye between the cornea and lens)
    * Lens
    * Sclera (the white outer coating of the eye)

## Normal Results

Structures in the eye are found to be normal.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

The slit lamp exam may detect many diseases of the eye, including:

    * Clouding of the lens of the eye (cataract)
    * Injury to the cornea
    * Dry eye syndrome
    * Loss of sharp vision due to macular degeneration
    * Separation of the retina from its supporting layers (retinal detachment)
    * Blockage in a small artery or vein that carries blood to or from the retina (retinal vessel occlusion)
    * Inherited degeneration of the retina (retinitis pigmentosa)
    * Swelling and irritation of the uvea (uveitis), the middle layer of the eye 

This list does not include all possible diseases of the eye.

## Risks

If you receive drops to dilate your eyes for the ophthalmoscopy, your vision
will be blurred.

    * Wear sunglasses to protect your eyes from sunlight, which can damage your eyes.
    * Have someone drive you home.
    * The drops usually wear off in several hours. 

In rare cases, the dilating eyedrops cause:

    * An attack of narrow-angle glaucoma
    * Dizziness
    * Dryness of the mouth
    * Flushing
    * Nausea and vomiting 

## Alternative Names

Biomicroscopy

## Images

    * ![Eye](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1094t.jpg)Eye
    * ![Slit-lamp exam](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1140t.jpg)Slit-lamp exam
    * ![Eye lens anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8785t.jpg)Eye lens anatomy

## References

Atebara NH, Miller D, Thall EH. Ophthalmic instruments. In: Yanoff M, Duker
JS, eds. _Ophthalmology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 2.5.

Feder RS, Olsen TW, Prum BE Jr, et al; American Academy of Ophthalmology.
Comprehensive adult medical eye evaluation preferred practice pattern
guidelines. _Ophthalmology_. 2016;123(1):209-236. PMID: 26581558
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26581558.

Prokopich CL, Hrynchak P, Elliott DB, Flanagan JG. Ocular health assessment.
In: Elliott DB, ed. _Clinical Procedures in Primary Eye Care_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 7.

## Review Date 2/28/2019

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cataract](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cataract2_thumb.jpg)Cataract _Read
more_

![Eye Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EyeDiseases_thumb.jpg)Eye
Diseases _Read more_

![Eye
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EyeInfectionsNew_thumb.jpg)Eye
Infections _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

