Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001001.htm    
                                Description: A cataract is a clouding of the lens of the eye.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Adult cataract

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001001.htm

# Adult cataract

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A cataract is a clouding of the lens of the eye.

## Causes

The lens of the eye is normally clear. It acts like the lens on a camera,
focusing light as it passes to the back of the eye.

Until a person is around age 45, the shape of the lens is able to change. This
allows the lens to focus on an object, whether it is close or far away.

As a person ages, proteins in the lens begin to break down. As a result, the
lens becomes cloudy. What the eye sees may appear blurry. This condition is
known as a cataract.

Factors that may speed cataract formation are:

    * Diabetes
    * Eye inflammation
    * Eye injury
    * Family history of cataracts
    * Long-term use of corticosteroids (taken by mouth) or certain other medicines
    * Radiation exposure
    * Smoking
    * Surgery for another eye problem
    * Too much exposure to ultraviolet light (sunlight)
![Cataract - close-up of the
eye](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/1684.jpg)

## Symptoms

![Cataract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200046t.gif)Watch this
video about:Cataract

Cataracts develop slowly and painlessly. Vision in the affected eye slowly
gets worse.

    * Mild clouding of the lens often occurs after age 60. But it may not cause any vision problems.
    * By age 75, most people have cataracts that affect their vision. 

Problems with seeing may include:

    * Being sensitive to glare
    * Cloudy, fuzzy, foggy, or filmy vision
    * Difficulty seeing at night or in dim light
    * Double vision
    * Loss of color intensity
    * Problems seeing shapes against a background or the difference between shades of colors
    * Seeing halos around lights
    * Frequent changes in eyeglass prescriptions 

Cataracts lead to decreased vision, even in daylight. Most people with
cataracts have similar changes in both eyes, though one eye may be worse than
the other. Often there are only mild vision changes.

## Exams and Tests

A standard eye exam and slit-lamp examination are used to diagnose cataracts.
Other tests are rarely needed, except to rule out other causes of poor vision.

![Slit-lamp exam](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/1140.jpg)

## Treatment

For early cataract, the eye doctorÂ (ophthalmologist) may recommend the
following:

    * Change in eyeglass prescription
    * Better lighting
    * Magnifying lenses
    * Sunglasses

As vision gets worse, you may need to make changes around the home to avoid
falls and injuries.

The only treatment for a cataract is surgery to remove it.Â If a cataract is
not making it hard for you to see, surgery is usually not necessary. Cataracts
usually do not harm the eye, so you can have surgery when you and your eye
doctor decide it is right for you. Surgery is usually recommended when you
can't do normal activities such as driving, reading, or looking at computer or
video screens, even with glasses.

Some people may have other eye problems, such as diabetic retinopathy, that
can't be treated without first having cataract surgery.Â

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Vision may not improve to 20/20 after cataract surgery if other eye diseases,
such as macular degeneration, are present. The eye doctor canÂ often determine
this in advance.

## Possible Complications

Early diagnosis and properly timed treatment are key to preventing permanent
vision problems.

Although rare, a cataract that goes on to an advanced stage (called a
hypermature cataract) can begin to leak into other parts of the eye. This may
cause a painful form of glaucoma and inflammation inside the eye.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your eye care professional if you have:

    * Decreased night vision
    * Problems with glare
    * Vision loss

## Prevention

The best prevention involves controlling diseases that increase the risk for a
cataract. Avoiding exposure to things that promote cataract formation can also
help. For example, if you smoke, now is the time to quit. Also, when outdoors,
wear sunglasses to protect your eyes from harmful UV rays.

## Alternative Names

Lens opacity; Age-related cataract; Vision loss - cataract

## Patient Instructions

    * Cataracts - what to ask your doctor 

## Images

    * ![Eye](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1094t.jpg)Eye
    * ![Slit-lamp exam](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1140t.jpg)Slit-lamp exam
    * ![Cataract - close-up of the eye](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1684t.jpg)Cataract - close-up of the eye
    * ![Cataract surgery - series - Normal anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10210t.jpg)Cataract surgery - series

## References

American Academy of Ophthalmology website. Preferred Practice Patterns
Cataract and Anterior Segment Panel, Hoskins Center for Quality Eye Care.
Cataract in the adult eye PPP - 2016. www.aao.org/preferred-practice-
pattern/cataract-in-adult-eye-ppp-2016. Updated October 2016. Accessed
September 4, 2019.

National Eye Institute website. Facts about cataracts.
www.nei.nih.gov/health/cataract/cataract_facts. Updated September 2015.
Accessed September 4, 2019.

Wevill M. Epidemiology, pathophysiology, causes, morphology, and visual
effects of cataract. In: Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds. _Ophthalmology_. 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 5.3.

## Review Date 8/8/2019

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cataract](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cataract2_thumb.jpg)Cataract _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

