Link: https://medlineplus.gov/coronaryarterybypasssurgery.html    
                                Description: Learn about coronary artery bypass surgery (or graft, CABG). It uses blood vessels from other areas of the body to bypass narrowed heart arteries.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Coronary Artery Bypass Surgery

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/coronaryarterybypasssurgery.html

#  Coronary Artery Bypass Surgery

Also called: Bypass surgery, CABG, Coronary artery bypass graft

On this page

### Basics

  * Summary
  * Start Here
  * Diagnosis and Tests

### Learn More

  * Living With
  * Related Issues
  * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

  * Images
  * Videos and Tutorials

### Research

  * Clinical Trials
  * Journal Articles

### Resources

  * Reference Desk
  * Find an Expert

### For You

  * Patient Handouts

## Summary

In coronary artery disease (CAD), the arteries that supply blood and oxygen to
your heart muscle grow hardened and narrowed. You may try treatments such as
lifestyle changes, medicines, and angioplasty, a procedure to open the
arteries. If these treatments don't help, you may need coronary artery bypass
surgery.

The surgery creates a new path for blood to flow to the heart. The surgeon
takes a healthy piece of vein from the leg or artery from the chest or wrist.
Then the surgeon attaches it to the coronary artery, just above and below the
narrowed area or blockage. This allows blood to bypass (get around) the
blockage. Sometimes people need more than one bypass.

The results of the surgery usually are excellent. Many people remain symptom-
free for many years. You may need surgery again if blockages form in the
grafted arteries or veins or in arteries that weren't blocked before.
Lifestyle changes and medicines may help prevent arteries from becoming
clogged again.

NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute

## Start Here

  * Coronary Artery Bypass (Texas Heart Institute) Also in Spanish
  * Coronary Artery Bypass Grafting ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)
  * What Is Coronary Bypass Surgery? ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (American Heart Association) \- PDF

## Diagnosis and Tests

  * Coronary Computed Tomography Angiography (CTA) (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish

## Living With

  * Cardiac Rehabilitation: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * What Happens after Heart Surgery? ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (American Heart Association) \- PDF
  * What to Expect After Heart Surgery (Society of Thoracic Surgeons) \- PDF

## Related Issues

  * Coronary Artery Disease: Angioplasty or Bypass Surgery? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

  * Limited-Access Heart Surgery (Texas Heart Institute)

## Images

  * Heart bypass surgery - slideshow (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Videos and Tutorials

  * Heart bypass surgery ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Clinical Trials

  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Coronary Artery Bypass ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

  * Article: Percutaneous coronary angioplasty versus coronary artery bypass grafting in the treatment...
  * Article: Effect of Using Triclosan-Impregnated Polyglactin Suture to Prevent Infection of Saphenectomy...
  * Article: The Effect of High-Dose Vitamin C on Biochemical Markers of Myocardial...
  * Coronary Artery Bypass Surgery -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

  * Heart Anatomy (Texas Heart Institute) Also in Spanish
  * Heart and Stroke Encyclopedia (American Heart Association)
  * How the Heart Works ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)

## Find an Expert

  * American Heart Association
  * National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Patient Handouts

  * Heart bypass surgery (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Heart bypass surgery - discharge (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Heart bypass surgery - minimally invasive (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Heart bypass surgery - minimally invasive - discharge (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Coronary Artery Bypass
Surgery](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CoronaryArteryBypassSurgery.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

  * Heart bypass surgery
  * Heart bypass surgery
  * Heart bypass surgery - discharge
  * Heart bypass surgery - minimally invasive
  * Heart bypass surgery - minimally invasive - discharge
  * Heart bypass surgery - slideshow

## Related Health Topics

  * Angioplasty
  * Cardiac Rehabilitation
  * Heart Surgery

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Coronary Artery Bypass Surgery is
the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Coronary Artery
Bypass Surgery_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 19 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 10 April 2017

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

