Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000052.htm    
                                Description: Older adults and people with medical problems are at risk of falling or tripping. This can result in broken bones or more serious injuries.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Preventing falls

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000052.htm

# Preventing falls

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Older adults and people with medical problems are at risk of falling or
tripping. This can result in broken bones or more serious injuries.

Use the tips below to make changes in the home to prevent falls.

## What to Expect at Home

Falls can happen anywhere. This includes inside and outside the home. Take
action to prevent falls, such as setting up a safe home, avoiding things that
can cause falls, and exercising to build strength.

## Home Setup

Have a bed that is low, so that your feet touch the floor when you sit on the
edge of the bed.

Keep tripping hazards out of your home.

    * Remove loose wires or cords from areas you walk through to get from one room to another.
    * Remove loose throw rugs.
    * DO NOT keep small pets in your home.
    * Fix any uneven flooring in doorways.

Have good lighting.

Stay safe in the bathroom.

    * Put hand rails in the bathtub or shower and next to the toilet.
    * Place a slip-proof mat in the bathtub or shower.

Reorganize the home so things are easier to reach. Keep a cordless or cell
phone with you so you have it when you need to make or receive calls.

Set up your home so that you do not have to climb steps.

    * Put your bed or bedroom on the first floor.
    * Have a bathroom or a portable commode on the same floor where you spend most of your day.

If you do not have a caregiver, ask your health care provider about having
someone come to your home to check for safety problems.

## Home Care

Weak muscles that make it more difficult to stand up or keep your balance are
a common cause of falls. Balance problems can also cause falls.

When you walk, avoid sudden movements or changes in position. Wear shoes with
low heels that fit well. Rubber soles can help keep you from slipping. Stay
away from water or ice on sidewalks.

DO NOT stand on step ladders or chairs to reach things.

Ask your provider about medicines you may be taking that can make you dizzy.
Your provider may be able to make some medicine changes that could reduce
falls.

Ask your provider about a cane or walker. If you use a walker, attach a small
basket to it to keep your phone and other important items in.

## Exercise to Help Build Your Strength

When you stand up from a sitting position, go slowly. Hold on to something
stable. If you are having problems getting up, ask your provider about seeing
a physical therapist. The therapist can show you how to build your strength to
make getting up easier.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if you have fallen, or if you almost fall. Also call if
your eyesight has worsened. Improving your vision will help reduce falls.

## Alternative Names

Home safety; Safety in the home; Fall prevention

## Images

    * ![Preventing falls](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22912t.jpg)Preventing falls

## References

Dalbaere K, Sherrington C, Lord SR. Falls prevention interventions. In:
Marchus R, Feldman D, Dempster DW, Luckey M, Cauley JA, eds. _Osteoporosis_.
4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2013:chap 70.

Studenski S, Van Swearingen J. Falls. In: Fillit HM, Rockwood K, Young J, eds.
_Brocklehurst's Textbook of Geriatric Medicine and Gerontology_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 103.

US Preventive Services Task Force website. Falls prevention in older adults:
interventions.
www.uspreventiveservicestaskforce.org/Page/Document/UpdateSummaryDraft/falls-
prevention-in-older-adults-interventions1. Updated April 2018. Accessed May
10, 2018.

## Read More

    * Alzheimer disease
    * Ankle replacement
    * Bunion removal
    * Cataract removal
    * Clubfoot repair
    * Corneal transplant
    * Dementia
    * Gastric bypass surgery
    * Heart bypass surgery
    * Heart bypass surgery - minimally invasive
    * Hip joint replacement
    * Kidney removal
    * Knee joint replacement
    * Large bowel resection
    * Leg or foot amputation
    * Lung surgery
    * Osteoporosis - overview
    * Radical prostatectomy
    * Small bowel resection
    * Spinal fusion
    * Stroke
    * Total proctocolectomy with ileostomy 
    * Transurethral resection of the prostate

## Patient Instructions

    * Ankle replacement - discharge 
    * Bathroom safety - children
    * Bathroom safety for adults
    * Dementia - daily care
    * Dementia - keeping safe in the home
    * Dementia - what to ask your doctor 
    * Diabetes eye care
    * Foot amputation - discharge
    * Kidney removal - discharge
    * Leg amputation - discharge
    * Leg or foot amputation - dressing change
    * Lung surgery - discharge 
    * Multiple sclerosis - discharge
    * Phantom limb pain
    * Stroke - discharge 

## Review Date 4/30/2018

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, Attending Neurologist and Assistant
Professor of Clinical Neurology, SUNY Stony Brook, School of Medicine, Stony
Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Falls

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

