Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000441.htm    
                                Description: Falls can be a serious problem in the hospital. Factors that increase the risk of falls include:    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

After a fall in the hospital

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000441.htm

# After a fall in the hospital

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Falls can be a serious problem in the hospital. Factors that increase the risk
of falls include:

    * Poor lighting
    * Slippery floors
    * Equipment in rooms and hallways that gets in the way
    * Being weak from illness or surgery
    * Being in new surroundings 

Hospital staff often do not see patients fall. But falls require attention
right away to lessen the risk of injury.

## When the Patient Falls

If you are with a patient when they begin to fall:

    * Use your body to break the fall.
    * Protect your own back by keeping your feet wide apart and your knees bent.
    * Make sure the patient's head does not hit the floor or any other surface. 

## After the Fall

Stay with the patient and call for help.

    * Check the patient's breathing, pulse, and blood pressure. If the patient is unconscious, not breathing, or does not have a pulse, call a hospital emergency code and start CPR.
    * Check for injury, such as cuts, scrapes, bruises, and broken bones.
    * If you were not there when the patient fell, ask the patient or someone who saw the fall what happened. 

If the patient is confused, shaking, or shows signs of weakness, pain, or
dizziness:

    * Stay with the patient. Provide blankets for comfort until medical staff arrives.
    * DO NOT raise the patient's head if they may have a neck or back injury. Wait for medical staff to check for a spinal injury. 

Once medical staff decides the patient can be moved, you need to choose the
best way.

    * If the patient is not hurt or injured and does not appear ill, have another staff member help you. Both of you should help the patient into a wheelchair or into bed. DO NOT help the patient on your own.
    * If the patient cannot support most of his or her own body weight, you may need to use a backboard or a lift. 

Watch the patient closely after the fall. You may need to check the person's
alertness, blood pressure and pulse, and possibly blood sugar.

Document the fall according to your hospital's policies.

## Alternative Names

Hospital safety - falls; Patient safety - falls

## References

Andrews J. Optimizing the built environment for frail older adults. In: Fillit
HM, Rockwood K, Young J, eds. _Brocklehurst's Textbook of Geriatric Medicine
and Gerontology_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier, 2017:chap 132.

Schlaudecker JD, Bernheisel CR, Mount HR. Hospital care. In: Ham RJ, Sloane
PD, Warshaw GA, Potter JF, Flaherty E, eds. _Ham's Primary Care Geriatrics: A
Case-Based Approach_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap
10.

Witham MD. Ageing and disease. In: Walker BR, Colledge NR, Ralston SH, Perman
ID, eds. _Davidson's Principles and Practice of Medicine_. 22nd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone; 2014:chap 7.

## Review Date 2/18/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Falls

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

