Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000493.htm    
                                Description: If you have a medical problem or you are an older adult, you may be at risk of falling or tripping. This can result in broken bones or even more serious injuries.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Exercises to help prevent falls

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000493.htm

# Exercises to help prevent falls

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

If you have a medical problem or you are an older adult, you may be at risk of
falling or tripping. This can result in broken bones or even more serious
injuries.

Exercising can help prevent falls because it can:

    * Make your muscles stronger and more flexible
    * Improve your balance
    * Increase how long you can be active 

You can do the following exercises anytime and almost anywhere. As you get
stronger, try to hold each position longer or add light weights to your
ankles. This will increase how effective the exercise is.

Try to exercise 150 minutes a week. Perform muscle strengthening exercises 2
or more days a week. Start off slowly and check with your health care provider
to make sure you are doing the right type of exercises for you. You may want
to exercise on your own or join a group.

When you exercise, always make sure you breathe slowly and easily. DO NOT hold
your breath.

## Balance Exercises

You can do some balance exercises during everyday activities.

    * While waiting in line at the store, try balancing on one foot.
    * Try sitting down and standing up without using your hands.

## Toe Stand

To make your calves and ankle muscles stronger:

    * Hold on to a solid support for balance, like the back of a chair.
    * Stand with your back straight and slightly bend both knees.
    * Push up onto your tiptoes as high as possible.
    * Slowly lower your heels to the floor.
    * Repeat 10 to 15 times. 

## Knee Curl

To make your buttocks and lower back muscles stronger:

    * Hold on to a solid support for balance, like the back of a chair.
    * Stand with your back straight, feet shoulder width apart, and slightly bend both knees.
    * Lift one leg straight back behind you, then bend your knee and bring your heel toward your buttock.
    * Slowly lower your leg back to a standing position.
    * Repeat 10 to 15 times with each leg.

## Leg Extension

To make your thigh muscles stronger and possibly decrease knee pain:

    * Sit in a straight-back chair with your feet on the floor.
    * Straighten one leg out in front of you as much as possible.
    * Slowly lower your leg back down.
    * Repeat 10 to 15 times with each leg.

## Stretching the Back of Your Leg

To make it easier for you to move around:

    * Sit in a straight-back chair.
    * Put one foot on a low stool in front of you.
    * Straighten your leg that is on the stool and reach your hand toward this foot.
    * Hold for 10 to 20 seconds. Then sit back up.
    * Repeat 5 times with each leg.

## Other Activities

Walking is a great way to improve your strength, balance, and endurance.

    * Use a walking stick or walker as needed for support.
    * As you get stronger, try walking on uneven ground, such as sand or gravel. 

Tai Chi is a good exercise for healthy adults to help develop balance.

Simple movements and exercises in a swimming pool can help improve balance and
build strength.

## When to Call the Doctor

If you have pain, dizziness, or problems breathing during or after any
exercise, stop. Talk with your physical therapist, nurse, or provider about
what you are experiencing and before you continue.

## References

Donath L, van Dieen J, Faude O. Exercise-based fall prevention in the elderly:
what about agility? _Sports Med_. 2016;46(2):143-149. PMID: 26395115
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26395115.

National Institute on Aging website. Prevent falls and fractures.
www.nia.nih.gov/health/prevent-falls-and-fractures. Updated March 15, 2017.
Accessed May 15, 2018.

## Review Date 4/15/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Exercise and Physical Fitness
    * Falls

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

