Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000254.htm    
                                Description: Many people with medical problems are at risk of falling or tripping. This can leave you with broken bones or more serious injuries. You can do many things to make your home safer for you to prevent falls.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Preventing falls - what to ask your doctor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000254.htm

# Preventing falls - what to ask your doctor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Many people with medical problems are at risk of falling or tripping. This can
leave you with broken bones or more serious injuries. You can do many things
to make your home safer for you to prevent falls.

Below are questions you may want to ask your health care provider to help keep
your home safe for you.

## Questions

Am I taking any medicines that will make me sleepy, dizzy, or lightheaded?

Are there exercises I can do to make me stronger or improve my balance to help
prevent falls?

Where in my home do I need to make sure there is enough light?

How can I make my bathroom safer?

    * Do I need a shower chair?
    * Do I need a raised toilet seat?
    * Do I need help when I take a shower or bath? 

Do I need bars on the walls in the shower, by the toilet, or in the hallways?

Is my bed low enough?

    * Do I need a hospital bed?
    * Do I need a bed on the first floor so I do not need to climb stairs? 

How can I make the stairs at my house safer?

Is it OK to have pets in the home?

What are other things that I may trip over?

What can I do about any uneven floors?

Do I need help with cleaning, cooking, laundry, or other household chores?

Should I use a cane or a walker?

What should I do if I fall? How can I keep my phone near me?

Should I purchase a medical alert system to call for help if I fall?

## Alternative Names

Fall prevention - what to ask your doctor

## References

American Geriatrics Society Health in Aging Foundation website. Falls
prevention. www.healthinaging.org/a-z-topic/falls-prevention. Updated October
2017. Accessed February 27, 2019.

Phelan EA, Mahoney JE, Voit JC, Stevens JA. Assessment and management of fall
risk in primary care settings. _Med Clin North Am_. 2015;99(2):281-293. PMID:
25700584 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25700584.

Rubenstein LZ, Dillard D. Falls. In: Ham RJ, Sloane PD, Warshaw GA, Potter JF,
Flaherty E, eds. _Ham's Primary Care Geriatrics_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 20.

## Read More

    * Ankle replacement
    * Bunion removal
    * Cataract removal
    * Corneal transplant
    * Hip joint replacement
    * Knee joint replacement
    * Spinal fusion

## Patient Instructions

    * Bathroom safety for adults
    * Foot amputation - discharge
    * Getting your home ready - knee or hip surgery
    * Hip replacement - discharge 
    * Knee joint replacement - discharge 
    * Leg amputation - discharge
    * Multiple sclerosis - discharge
    * Stroke - discharge 
    * Taking care of your new hip joint

## Review Date 2/6/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Falls

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

