Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000021.htm    
                                Description: Older adults and people with medical problems are at risk of falling or tripping. This can result in broken bones or more serious injuries. The bathroom is a place in the home where falls can happen. Making    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bathroom safety for adults

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000021.htm

# Bathroom safety for adults

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Older adults and people with medical problems are at risk of falling or
tripping. This can result in broken bones or more serious injuries. The
bathroom is a place in the home where falls can happen. Making changes in your
bathroom helps lower your risk of falling.

## What to Consider at Home

Staying safe in the bathroom is important for people with joint pain, muscle
weakness, or physical disability. If you have any of these issues, you will
need to take precaution in your bathroom.

## Bath or Shower

To protect yourself when you take a bath or shower:

    * Put non-slip suction mats or rubber silicone decals in the bottom of your tub to prevent falls.
    * Use a non-skid bath mat outside the tub for firm footing.
    * If you do not already have one, install a single lever on your faucet to mix hot and cold water together.
    * Set the temperature on your water heater to 120Â°F (49Â°C) to prevent burns.
    * Sit on a bath chair or bench when taking a shower.
    * Keep the floor outside the tub or shower dry. 

## The Toilet

Always urinate sitting down and don't get up suddenly after urinating.

Raising the toilet seat height can help prevent falls. You can do this by
adding an elevated toilet seat. You can also use a commode chair instead of a
toilet.

Consider a special seat called a portable bidet. It helps you clean your
bottom without using your hands. It sprays warm water to clean, then warm air
to dry.

## Safety Bars for the Bath and Toilet

You may need to have safety bars in your bathroom. These grab bars should be
secured vertically or horizontally to the wall, not diagonally.

DO NOT use towel racks as grab bars. They can't support your weight.

You will need two grab bars: one to help you get in and out of the tub, and
another to help you stand from a sitting position.

## When to Call the Doctor

If you are not sure what changes you need to make in your bathroom, ask your
health care provider for a referral to an occupational therapist. The
occupational therapist can visit your bathroom and make safety
recommendations.

## Alternative Names

Older adult bathroom safety; Falls - bathroom safety

## Images

    * ![Bathroom safety](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22935t.jpg)Bathroom safety

## References

Afifi M, Al-Hussein M, Bouferguene A. Geriatric bathroom design to minimize
risk of falling for older adults - a systematic review. _Eur Geriatr Med_.
2015;6(6):598-603.
www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1878764915001114.

Rubenstein LZ, Dillard D. Falls. In: Ham RJ, Sloane PD, Warshaw GA, Potter JF,
Flaherty E, eds. _Ham's Primary Care Geriatrics: A Case-Based Approach_. 6th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 20.

## Read More

    * Ankle replacement
    * Bunion removal
    * Cataract removal
    * Corneal transplant
    * Gastric bypass surgery
    * Heart bypass surgery
    * Heart bypass surgery - minimally invasive
    * Hip joint replacement
    * Kidney removal
    * Knee joint replacement
    * Large bowel resection
    * Leg or foot amputation
    * Lung surgery
    * Radical prostatectomy
    * Small bowel resection
    * Spinal fusion
    * Total proctocolectomy with ileostomy 
    * Transurethral resection of the prostate

## Patient Instructions

    * Ankle replacement - discharge 
    * Foot amputation - discharge
    * Kidney removal - discharge
    * Knee joint replacement - discharge 
    * Leg amputation - discharge
    * Leg or foot amputation - dressing change
    * Lung surgery - discharge 
    * Multiple sclerosis - discharge
    * Phantom limb pain
    * Preventing falls
    * Preventing falls - what to ask your doctor 
    * Stroke - discharge 
    * Taking care of your new hip joint

## Review Date 4/30/2018

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, Attending Neurologist and Assistant
Professor of Clinical Neurology, SUNY Stony Brook, School of Medicine, Stony
Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Falls

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

