Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/cognitive-testing/    
                                Description: Cognitive testing uses a series of questions and simple tasks to find out if you have cognitive impairment. Cognitive impairment is a problem with memory and/or other mental functions. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Cognitive Testing

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/cognitive-testing/

# Cognitive Testing

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is cognitive testing?

Cognitive testing checks for problems with cognition. Cognition is a
combination of processes in your brain that's involved in almost every aspect
of your life. It includes thinking, memory, language, judgment, and the
ability to learn new things. A problem with cognition is called cognitive
impairment. The condition ranges from mild to severe.

There are many causes of cognitive impairment. They include side effects of
medicines, blood vessel disorders, depression, and dementia. Dementia is a
term used for a severe loss of mental functioning. Alzheimer's disease is the
most common type of dementia.

Cognitive testing can't show the specific cause of impairment. But testing can
help your provider find out if you need more tests and/or take steps to
address the problem.

There are different types of cognitive tests. The most common tests are:

    * Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA)
    * Mini-Mental State Exam (MMSE)
    * Mini-Cog

All three tests measure mental functions through a series of questions and/or
simple tasks.

Other names: cognitive assessment, Montreal Cognitive Assessment, MoCA test,
Mini-Mental State Exam (MMSE), and Mini-Cog

## What is it used for?

Cognitive testing is often used to screen for mild cognitive impairment (MCI).
People with MCI may notice changes in their memory and other mental functions.
The changes aren't severe enough to have a major effect on your daily life or
usual activities. But MCI can be a risk factor for more serious impairment. If
you have MCI, your provider may give you several tests over time to check for
a decline in mental function.

## Why do I need cognitive testing?

You may need cognitive testing if you show signs of cognitive impairment.
These include:

    * Forgetting appointments and important events
    * Losing things often
    * Having trouble coming up with words that you usually know
    * Losing your train of thought in conversations, movies, or books
    * Increased irritability and/or anxiety

Your family or friends may suggest testing if they notice any of these
symptoms.

## What happens during a cognitive test?

There are different types of cognitive tests. Each involves answering a series
of questions and/or performing simple tasks. They are designed to help measure
mental functions, such as memory, language, and the ability to recognize
objects. The most common types of tests are:

    *  **Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) test.** A 10-15 minute test that includes memorizing a short list of words, identifying a picture of an animal, and copying a drawing of a shape or object.
    *  **Mini-Mental State Exam (MMSE).** A 7-10 minute test that includes naming the current date, counting backward, and identifying everyday objects like a pencil or watch.
    *  **Mini-Cog.** A 3-5 minute test that includes recalling a three-word list of objects and drawing a clock.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for cognitive testing?

You don't need any special preparations for a cognitive test.

## Are there any risks to testing?

There is no risk to having cognitive testing.

## What do the results mean?

If your test results were not normal, it means you have some problem with
memory or other mental function. But it won't diagnose the cause. Your health
care provider may need to do more tests to find out the reason. Some types of
cognitive impairment are caused by treatable medical conditions. These
include:

    * Thyroid disease
    * Side effects of medicines
    * Vitamin deficiencies

In these cases, cognition problems may improve or even clear up entirely after
treatment.

Other types of cognitive impairment are not curable. But medicines and healthy
lifestyle changes may help slow mental decline in some cases. A diagnosis of
dementia may also help patients and their families prepare for future health
needs.

If you have questions or are concerned about your results, talk to your health
care provider.

## Is there anything else I need to know about cognitive testing?

The MoCA test is usually better at finding mild cognitive impairment. The MMSE
is better at finding more serious cognitive problems. The Mini-Cog is often
used because it is quick, easy-to-use, and widely available. Your health care
provider may do one or more of these tests, depending on your condition.

## References

    1. Alzheimer's Association [Internet]. Chicago: Alzheimer's Association; c2018. Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) [cited 2018 Nov 18]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.alz.org/alzheimers-dementia/what-is-dementia/related_conditions/mild-cognitive-impairment
    2. Alzheimer's Association [Internet]. Chicago: Alzheimer's Association; c2018. What Is Alzheimer's? [cited 2018 Nov 18]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.alz.org/alzheimers-dementia/what-is-alzheimers
    3. Alzheimer's Association [Internet]. Chicago: Alzheimer's Association; c2018. What Is Dementia? [cited 2018 Nov 18]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.alz.org/alzheimers-dementia/what-is-dementia
    4. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Cognitive Impairment: A Call for Action, Now!; 2011 Feb [cited 2018 Nov 18]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/aging/pdf/cognitive_impairment/cogimp_poilicy_final.pdf
    5. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Healthy Brain Initiative [updated 2017 Jan 31; cited 2018 Nov 18]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/aging/healthybrain/index.htm
    6. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2018. Mild cognitive impairment (MCI): Diagnosis and treatment; 2018 Aug 23 [cited 2018 Nov 18]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/mild-cognitive-impairment/diagnosis-treatment/drc-20354583
    7. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2018. Mild cognitive impairment (MCI): Symptoms and causes; 2018 Aug 23 [cited 2018 Nov 18]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/mild-cognitive-impairment/symptoms-causes/syc-20354578
    8. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co. Inc.; c2018. Neurological Examination [cited 2018 Nov 18]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.merckmanuals.com/home/brain,-spinal-cord,-and-nerve-disorders/diagnosis-of-brain,-spinal-cord,-and-nerve-disorders/neurologic-examination
    9. Merck Manual Professional Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co. Inc.; c2018. How to Assess Mental Status [cited 2018 Nov 18]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/neurologic-disorders/neurologic-examination/how-to-assess-mental-status
    10. Michigan Medicine: University of Michigan [Internet]. Ann Arbor (MI): Regents of the University of Michigan; c1995â2018. Mild Cognitive Impairment [cited 2018 Nov 18]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.uofmhealth.org/brain-neurological-conditions//mild-cognitive-impairment
    11. National Institute on Aging [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Assessing Cognitive Impairment in Older Patients [cited 2018 Nov 18]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.nia.nih.gov/health/assessing-cognitive-impairment-older-patients
    12. National Institute on Aging [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What Is Alzheimer's Disease? [cited 2018 Nov 18]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.nia.nih.gov/health/what-alzheimers-disease
    13. National Institute on Aging [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What Is Mild Cognitive Impairment? [cited 2018 Nov 18]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.nia.nih.gov/health/what-mild-cognitive-impairment
    14. Norris DR, Clark MS, Shipley S. The Mental Status Examination. Am Fam Physician [Internet]. 2016 Oct 15 [cited 2018 Nov 18]; 94(8); 635â41. Available from: https://www.aafp.org/afp/2016/1015/p635.html
    15. Today's Geriatric Medicine [Internet]. Spring City (PA): Great Valley Publishing; c2018. MMSE vs. MoCA: What You Should Know [cited 2018 Nov 18]; [about 2 screens]; Available from: http://www.todaysgeriatricmedicine.com/news/ex_012511_01.shtml
    16. UMass Lowell [Internet]. Lowell (MA): UMass Lowell; Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE); [cited 2018 Nov 18]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.uml.edu/docs/Mini%20Mental%20State%20Exam_tcm18-169319.pdf
    17. U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs [Internet]. Washington D.C.: U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs; Parkinson's Disease Research, Education and Clinical Centers: Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA); 2004 Nov 12 [cited 2018 Nov 18]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.parkinsons.va.gov/consortium/moca.asp
    18. U.S. Preventive Services Task Force [Internet]. Rockville (MD): U.S. Preventive Services Task Force; Screening for Cognitive Impairment in Older Adults [cited 2018 Nov 18]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.uspreventiveservicestaskforce.org/Home/GetFile/1/482/dementes/pdf
    19. Xueyan L, Jie D, Shasha Z, Wangen L, Haimei L. Comparison of the value of Mini-Cog and MMSE screening in the rapid identification of Chinese outpatients with mild cognitive impairment. Medicine [Internet]. 2018 Jun [cited 2018 Nov 18]; 97(22): e10966. Available from: https://journals.lww.com/md-journal/Fulltext/2018/06010/Comparison_of_the_value_of_Mini_Cog_and_MMSE.74.aspx

## Related Health Topics

    * Alzheimer's Disease
    * Dementia
    * Memory
    * Mild Cognitive Impairment

## Related Lab Test Information

    * How to Understand Your Lab Results

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 24 February 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

