Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002046.htm    
                                Description: People who have early memory loss can use a number of techniques to help with remembering things. Below are some tips.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Remembering tips

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002046.htm

# Remembering tips

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

People who have early memory loss can use a number of techniques to help with
remembering things. Below are some tips.

## Information

Forgetting the name of a person you just met, where you parked your car, where
something is that you use every day, or a phone number you have dialed many
times before can be unsettling and scary. As you age, it becomes harder for
your brain to create a new memory, even while you can remember actions and
events from years ago.

Ways that can help with memory loss are listed below.

    * Allow yourself the time to do the things you need to do, and do not feel rushed or let other people rush you.
    * Have clocks and calendars around the house so that you can stay oriented to time and date.
    * Develop habits and routines that are easy to follow.

Keep your mind active:

    * Read a lot if you have trouble remembering words. Keep a dictionary close by.
    * Take part in enjoyable activities that stimulate the mind, such as word puzzles or board games. This helps keep the nerve cells in the brain active, which is very important as you get older.
    * If you live alone, make an effort to talk with friends and family members. Tell them about your memory problems, so they know how to help.
    * If you enjoy video games, try playing one that challenges the mind.

Keep things organized:

    * Always place your wallet, keys, and other important items in the same spot.
    * Get rid of extra clutter around your living space.
    * Write a to-do list (or have someone do this for you) and check off items as you do them.
    * Have pictures taken of people you see a lot and label them with their names. Place these by the door or by the phone.
    * Write down your appointments and other activities in a planner book or calendar. Keep it in an obvious place, such as beside your bed.Â 
    * Keep a list of phone numbers and addresses of close family members and friends in your purse or wallet.

As a reminder, place labels or pictures:

    * On drawers, describing or showing what is in them
    * On phones, including phone numbers
    * Near the stove, reminding you to turn it off
    * On doors and windows, reminding you to close them

Other tips to help your memory include:

    * See if a friend or family member can call and remind you about places you need to go, medicines you need to take, or important things you need to do during the day.
    * Find someone to help you shop, cook, pay your bills, and keep your house clean.
    * Reduce the amount of alcohol you drink. Alcohol can make it hard to remember things.
    * Stay physically active. Try to walk every day for up to 30 minutes and eat a healthy diet.

## Alternative Names

Memory aids; Alzheimer disease - remembering tips; Early memory loss -
remembering tips; Dementia - remembering tips

## Images

    * ![Memory tips](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9817t.jpg)Memory tips

## References

National Institute on Aging website. Forgetfulness: knowing when to ask for
help. order.nia.nih.gov/publication/forgetfulness-knowing-when-to-ask-for-
help. Updated October 2017. Accessed December 17, 2018.

## Review Date 10/12/2018

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Memory](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Memory2_thumb.jpg)Memory _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

