Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003257.htm    
                                Description: Memory loss (amnesia) is unusual forgetfulness. You may not be able to remember new events, recall one or more memories of the past, or both.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Memory loss

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003257.htm

# Memory loss

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Memory loss (amnesia) is unusual forgetfulness. You may not be able to
remember new events, recall one or more memories of the past, or both.

The memory loss may be for a short time and then resolve (transient). Or, it
may not go away, and, depending on the cause, it can get worse over time.

## Causes

Normal aging can cause some forgetfulness. It is normal to have some trouble
learning new material or needing more time to remember it. But normal aging
does not lead to dramatic memory loss. Such memory loss is due to other
diseases.

Memory loss can be caused by many things. To determine a cause, your health
care provider will ask if the problem came on suddenly or slowly.

Many areas of the brain help you create and retrieve memories. A problem in
any of these areas can lead to memory loss.

Memory loss may result from a new injury to the brain, which is caused by or
is present after:

    * Brain tumor
    * Cancer treatment, such as brain radiation, bone marrow transplant, or chemotherapy
    * Concussion or head trauma
    * Not enough oxygen getting to the brain when your heart or breathing is stopped for too long
    * Severe brain infection or infection around brain
    * Major surgery or severe illness, including brain surgery
    * Transient global amnesia (sudden, temporary loss of memory) of unclear cause
    * Transient ischemic attack (TIA) or stroke
    * Hydrocephalus (fluid collection in the brain) 

Sometimes, memory loss occurs with mental health problems, such as:

    * After a major, traumatic or stressful event
    * Bipolar disorder
    * Depression or other mental health disorders, such as schizophrenia

Memory loss may be a sign of dementia. Dementia also affects thinking,
language, judgment, and behavior. Common types of dementia associated with
memory loss are:

    * Alzheimer disease
    * Lewy body dementia
    * Fronto-temporal dementia
    * Progressive supranuclear palsy
    * Normal pressure hydrocephalus
    * Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (mad cow disease) 

Other causes of memory loss include:

    * Alcohol or use of prescription or illegal drugs
    * Brain infections such as Lyme disease, syphilis, or HIV/AIDS
    * Overuse of medicines, such as barbiturates or (hypnotics)
    * ECT (electroconvulsive therapy) (most often short-term memory loss)
    * Epilepsy that is not well controlled
    * Illness that results in the loss of, or damage to brain tissue or nerve cells, such as Parkinson disease, Huntington disease, or multiple sclerosis
    * Low levels of important nutrients or vitamins, such as low vitamin B1 or B12

## Home Care

A person with memory loss needs a lot of support.

    * It helps to show the person familiar objects, music, or and photos or play familiar music. 
    * Write down when the person should take any medicine or do other important tasks. It is important to write it down. 
    * If a person needs help with everyday tasks, or if safety or nutrition is a concern, you may want to consider extended-care facilities, such as a nursing home.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will perform a physical exam and ask about the person's medical
history and symptoms. This will usually include asking questions of family
members and friends. For this reason, they should come to the appointment.

Medical history questions may include:

    * Type of memory loss, such as short-term or long-term
    * Time pattern, such as how long the memory loss has lasted or whether it comes and goes
    * Things that triggered memory loss, such as head injury or surgery 

Tests that may be done include:

    * Blood tests for specific diseases that are suspected (such as low vitamin B12 or thyroid disease) 
    * Cerebral angiography
    * Cognitive tests (neuropsychological/psychometric tests)
    * CT scan or MRI of the head
    * EEG
    * Lumbar puncture

Treatment depends on the cause of memory loss. Your provider can tell you
more.

## Alternative Names

Forgetfulness; Amnesia; Impaired memory; Loss of memory; Amnestic syndrome;
Dementia - memory loss; Mild cognitive impairment - memory loss

## Images

    * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system
    * ![Brain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1074t.jpg)Brain

## References

Kirshner HS, Ally B. Intellectual and memory impairments. In: Daroff RB,
Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical
Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 7.

Oyebode F. Disturbance of memory. In: Oyebode F, ed. _Sims' Symptoms in the
Mind: Textbook of Descriptive Psychopathology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 5.

## Review Date 11/22/2017

Updated by: Luc Jasmin, MD, PhD, FRCS (C), FACS, Department of Surgery at
Providence Medical Center, Medford OR; Department of Surgery at Ashland
Community Hospital, Ashland OR; Department of Maxillofacial Surgery at UCSF,
San Francisco, CA. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Memory](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Memory2_thumb.jpg)Memory _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

