Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000361.htm    
                                Description: It may be hard for a person with hearing loss to understand a conversation with another person. Being in a group, conversation can be even harder. The person with hearing loss can feel isolated or cut    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Talking to someone with hearing loss

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000361.htm

# Talking to someone with hearing loss

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

It may be hard for a person with hearing loss to understand a conversation
with another person. Being in a group, conversation can be even harder. The
person with hearing loss can feel isolated or cut off. If you live or work
with someone who does not hear well, follow the tips below to better
communicate.

## Tips That Can Help

Make sure the person with hearing loss can see your face.

    * Stand or sit 3 to 6 feet (90 to 180 centimeters) away.
    * Position yourself so the person you are talking to can see your mouth and gestures.
    * Talk in a room where there is enough light for the person with hearing loss to see these visual clues.
    * While talking, DO NOT cover your mouth, eat, or chew on anything. 

Find a good environment for the conversation.

    * Reduce the amount of background noise by turning off the TV or radio.
    * Choose a quiet area of a restaurant, lobby, or office where there is less activity and noise. 

Make an extra effort to include the person in a conversation with others.

    * Never talk about a person with hearing loss as if they are not there.
    * Let the person know when the topic has changed.
    * Use the person's name so they know you are speaking to them. 

Say your words slowly and clearly.

    * You can speak louder than normal, but DO NOT shout.
    * DO NOT exaggerate your words because this may distort how they sound and make it harder for the person to understand you.
    * If the person with hearing loss does not understand a word or phrase, choose a different one rather than repeating it. 

## References

Dugan MB. _Living with Hearing Loss_. Washington DC: Gallaudet University
Press; 2003.

Nicastri C, Cole S. Interviewing elderly patients. In: Cole SA, Bird J, eds.
_The Medical Interview_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2014:chap 22.

## Review Date 5/22/2019

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.
Editorial update on 02-11-20.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Hearing Disorders and Deafness

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

