Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000504.htm    
                                Description: Alport syndrome is an inherited disorder that damages the tiny blood vessels in the kidneys. It also causes hearing loss and eye problems.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Alport syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000504.htm

# Alport syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Alport syndrome is an inherited disorder that damages the tiny blood vessels
in the kidneys. It also causes hearing loss and eye problems.

## Causes

Alport syndrome is an inherited form of kidney inflammation (nephritis). It is
caused by a defect (mutation) in a gene for a protein in the connective
tissue, called collagen.

The disorder is rare. There are three genetic types:

    * X-linked Alport syndrome (XLAS) -- This is the most common type. The disease is more severe in males than in females.
    * Autosomal recessive Alport syndrome (ARAS) -- Males and females have equally severe disease.
    * Autosomal dominant Alport syndrome (ADAS) -- This is the rarest type. Males and females have equally severe disease. 

## Symptoms

KIDNEYS

With all types of Alport syndrome the kidneys are affected. The tiny blood
vessels in the glomeruli of the kidneys are damaged. The glomeruli filter
blood to make urine and remove waste products from the blood.

At first, there are no symptoms. Over time, as the glomeruli are more and more
damaged, kidney function is lost and waste products and fluids build up in the
body. The condition can progress to end-stage renal disease (ESRD) at an early
age, between adolescence and age 40. At this point, dialysisÂ or a kidney
transplantÂ is needed.

Symptoms of kidney problems include:

    * Abnormal urine color
    * Blood in the urine (which can be worsened by upper respiratory infections or exercise)
    * Flank pain
    * High blood pressure
    * Swelling throughout the body

EARS

Over time, Alport syndrome also leads to hearing loss. By the early teens, it
is common in males with XLAS, though in females, hearing loss is not as common
and happens when they're adults. With ARAS, boys and girls have hearing loss
during childhood. With ADAS, it occurs later in life.

Hearing loss usually occurs before kidney failure.

EYES

Alport syndrome also leads to eye problems, including:

    * Abnormal shape of the lens (anterior lenticonus), which can lead to a slow decline in vision as well as cataracts.
    * Corneal erosion in which there is loss of the outer layer of the covering of the eyeball, leading to pain, itching, or redness of the eye, or blurred vision.
    * Abnormal coloring of the retina, a condition called dot-and-fleck retinopathy. It doesn't cause vision problems, but can help diagnose Alport syndrome.
    * Macular hole in which there is thinning or a break in the macula. The macula is a part of the retina that makes central vision sharper and more detailed. A macular hole causes blurred or distorted central vision.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will examine you and ask about your symptoms.

The following tests may be done:

    * BUN and serum creatinine
    * Complete blood count
    * Renal biopsy
    * Urinalysis

If your provider suspects you have Alport syndrome, you will also likely have
vision and hearing tests.

## Treatment

The goals of treatment include monitoring and controlling the disease and
treating the symptoms.

Your provider may recommend any of the following:

    * A diet that limits salt, fluids, and potassium
    * Medicines to control high blood pressure

Kidney disease is managed by:

    * Taking medicines to slow kidney damage
    * A diet that limits salt, fluids, and protein

Hearing loss can be managed with hearing aids. Eye problems are treated as
needed. For example, an abnormal lens due to lenticonus or cataracts can be
replaced.

Genetic counseling may be recommended because the disorder is inherited.

## Support Groups

These resources provide more information on Alport syndrome:

    * Alport Syndrome Foundation -- www.alportsyndrome.org/about-alport-syndrome
    * National Kidney Foundation -- www.kidney.org/atoz/content/alport
    * National Organization for Rare Disorders -- rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/alport-syndrome

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Women usually have a normal lifespan with no signs of the disease except for
blood in the urine. In rare cases, women have high blood pressure, swelling,
and nerve deafness as a complication of pregnancy.

In men, deafness, vision problems, and end-stage kidney disease are likely by
age 50.

Â As the kidneys fail, dialysis or a transplant will be needed.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your provider if:

    * You have symptoms of Alport syndrome
    * You have a family history of Alport syndrome and you are planning to have children
    * Your urine output decreases or stops or you see blood in your urine (this may be a symptom of chronic kidney disease)

## Prevention

Awareness of risk factors, such as a family history of the disorder, may allow
the condition to be detected early.

## Alternative Names

Hereditary nephritis; Hematuria - nephropathy - deafness; Hemorrhagic familial
nephritis; Hereditary deafness and nephropathy

## Images

    * ![Kidney anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1101t.jpg)Kidney anatomy

## References

Gregory MC. Alport syndrome and related disorders. In: Gilbert SJ, Weiner DE,
eds. _National Kidney Foundation's Primer on Kidney Diseases_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 42.

Radhakrishnan J, Appel GB, D'Agati VD. Secondary glomerular disease. In: Yu
ASL, Chertow GM, Luyckx VA, Marsden PA, Skorecki K, Taal MW, eds. _Brenner and
Rector's The Kidney_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 32.

Rheault MN, Kashtan CE. Alport syndrome and other familial glomerular
syndromes. In: Feehally J, Floege J, Tonelli M, Johnson RJ, eds.
_Comprehensive Clinical Nephrology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 46.

## Review Date 7/16/2019

Updated by: Walead Latif, MD, Nephrologist and Clinical Associate Professor,
Rutgers Medical School, Newark, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hearing Disorders and
Deafness](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HearingDisordersandDeafness_thumb.jpg)Hearing
Disorders and Deafness _Read more_

![Kidney
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyDisease_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

