Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003429.htm    
                                Description: Caloric stimulation is a test that uses differences in temperature to diagnose damage to the acoustic nerve. This is the nerve that is involved in hearing and balance. The test also checks for damage to    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Caloric stimulation

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003429.htm

# Caloric stimulation

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Caloric stimulation is a test that uses differences in temperature to diagnose
damage to the acoustic nerve. This is the nerve that is involved in hearing
and balance. The test also checks for damage to the brain stem.

## How the Test is Performed

This test stimulates your acoustic nerve by delivering cold or warm water or
air into your ear canal. When cold water or air enters your ear and the inner
ear changes temperature, it should cause fast, side-to-side eye movements
called nystagmus. The test is done in the following way:

    * Before the test, your ear, especially the eardrum, will be checked. This is to make sure it is normal.
    * One ear is tested at a time.
    * A small amount of cold water or air is gently delivered into one of your ears. Your eyes should show an involuntary movement called nystagmus. Then they should turn away from that ear and slowly back. If water is used, it is allowed to drain out of the ear canal.
    * Next, a small amount of warm water or air is gently delivered into the same ear. Again, your eyes should show nystagmus. Then they should turn toward that ear and slowly back.
    * Your other ear is tested in the same way.

During the test, the health care provider may observe your eyes directly. Most
often, this test is done as part of another test called electronystagmography.

## How to Prepare for the Test

DO NOT eat a heavy meal before the test. Avoid the following at least 24 hours
before the test, because they can affect the results:

    * Alcohol
    * Allergy medicines
    * Caffeine
    * Sedatives 

DO NOT stop taking your regular medicines without first talking to your
provider.

## How the Test will Feel

You may find the cold water or air in the ear uncomfortable. You may feel your
eyes scanning back and forth during nystagmus. You may have vertigo, and
sometimes, you can also have nausea. This lasts only a very short time.
Vomiting is rare.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test may be used to find the cause of:

    * Dizziness or vertigo
    * Hearing loss that may be due to certain antibiotics or other drugs 

It may also be done to look for brain damage in people who are in a coma.

## Normal Results

Rapid, side-to-side eye movements should occur when cold or warm water is
placed into the ear. The eye movements should be similar on both sides.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

If the rapid, side-to-side eye movements do not occur even after ice cold
water is given, there may be damage to the:

    * Nerve of the inner ear
    * Balance sensors of the inner ear
    * Brain 

Abnormal results may be due to:

    * Poor blood supply to the ear
    * Bleeding (hemorrhage)
    * Blood clot
    * Brain or brain stem damage
    * Cholesteatoma (a type of skin cyst in the middle ear and mastoid bone in the skull)
    * Birth defects of the ear structure or brain
    * Damage to the ear nerves
    * Poisoning
    * Rubella that damages the acoustic nerve
    * Trauma 

The test may also be done to diagnose or rule out:

    * Acoustic neuroma (tumor of the acoustic nerve)
    * Benign positional vertigo (a type of dizziness)
    * Labyrinthitis (irritation and swelling of the inner ear)
    * Meniere disease (inner ear disorder that affects balance and hearing)

## Risks

Too much water pressure can injure an already damaged eardrum. This rarely
occursÂ because the amount of water to be used is measured.

Water caloricÂ stimulation should not be done if the eardrum is torn
(perforated). This isÂ because it can cause an ear infection. It also should
not beÂ done during an episode of vertigo because it can make symptoms worse.

## Alternative Names

Caloric test; Bithermal caloric testing; Cold water calorics; Warm water
calorics; Air caloric testing

## References

Baloh RW, Jen JC. Hearing and equilibrium. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 428.

Kerber KA, Baloh RW. Neuro-otology: diagnosis and management of neuro-
otological disorders. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL,
eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 46.

## Review Date 3/11/2019

Updated by: Alireza Minagar, MD, MBA, Professor, Department of Neurology, LSU
Health Sciences Center, Shreveport, LA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Dizziness and
Vertigo](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Dizziness_thumb.jpg)Dizziness and
Vertigo _Read more_

![Ear Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EarDisorders_thumb.jpg)Ear
Disorders _Read more_

![Hearing Disorders and
Deafness](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HearingDisordersandDeafness_thumb.jpg)Hearing
Disorders and Deafness _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

