Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001048.htm    
                                Description: Occupational hearing loss is damage to the inner ear from noise or vibrations due to certain types of jobs.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Occupational hearing loss

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001048.htm

# Occupational hearing loss

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Occupational hearing loss is damage to the inner ear from noise or vibrations
due to certain types of jobs.

## Causes

Over time, repeated exposure to loud noise and music can cause hearing loss.

![Hearing and the
cochlea](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200057t.gif)Watch this
video about:Hearing and the cochlea

Sounds above 80 decibels (dB, a measurement of the loudness or strength of
sound vibration) may cause vibrations intense enough to damage the inner ear.
This is more likely to happen if the sound continues for a long time.

    * 90 dB -- a large truck 5 yards (4.5 meters) away (motorcycles, snowmobiles, and similar engines range from 85 to 90 dB)
    * 100 dB -- some rock concerts
    * 120 dB -- a jackhammer about 3 feet (1 meter) away
    * 130 dB -- a jet engine from 100 feet (30 meters) away 

A general rule of thumb is that if you need to shout to be heard, the sound is
in the range that can damage hearing.

Some jobs carry a high risk for hearing loss, such as:

    * Airline ground maintenance
    * Construction
    * Farming
    * Jobs involving loud music or machinery
    * Military jobs that involve combat, aircraft noise, or other loud noise posts 

In the United States, laws regulate the maximum job noise exposure that it is
allowed. Both the length of exposure and decibel level are considered. If the
sound is at or greater than the maximum levels recommended, you need to take
steps to protect your hearing.

## Symptoms

The main symptom is partial or complete hearing loss. The hearing loss will
likely get worse over time with continued exposure.

Noise in the ear (tinnitus) may accompany hearing loss.

## Exams and Tests

A physical exam will not show any specific changes in most cases. Tests that
may be done include:

    * Audiology/audiometry
    * CT scan of the head
    * MRI of the brain 

## Treatment

The hearing loss is very often permanent. The goals of treatment are to:

    * Prevent further hearing loss
    * Improve communication with any remaining hearing
    * Develop coping skills (such as lip reading) 

You may need to learn to live with hearing loss. There are techniques you can
learn to improve communication and avoid stress. Many things in your
surroundings can affect how well you hear and understand what others are
saying.

Using a hearing aid may help you understand speech. You can also use other
devices to help with hearing loss. If the hearing loss is severe enough, a
cochlear implant may help.

Protecting your ears from any further damage and hearing loss is a key part of
treatment. Protect your ears when you are exposed to loud noises. Wear ear
plugs or earmuffs to protect against damage from loud equipment.

Be aware of risks connected with recreation such as shooting a gun, driving
snowmobiles, or other similar activities.

Learn how to protect your ears when listening to music at home or concerts.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Hearing loss is often permanent. The loss may get worse if you don't take
measures to prevent further damage.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if:

    * You have hearing loss 
    * The hearing loss gets worse 
    * You develop other new symptoms 

## Prevention

The following steps can help prevent hearing loss.

    * Protect your ears when you are exposed to loud noises. Wear protective ear plugs or earmuffs when you are around loud equipment.
    * Be aware of the risks to hearing from recreational activities such as shooting a gun or driving snowmobiles.
    * DO NOT listen to loud music for long periods of time, including using headphones. 

## Alternative Names

Hearing loss - occupational; Noise-induced hearing loss

## Images

    * ![Ear anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1092t.jpg)Ear anatomy

## References

Arts HA. Sensorineural hearing loss in adults. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund
V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head & Neck Surgery_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 150.

Lonsbury-Martin BL, Martin GK. Noise-induced hearing loss. In: Flint PW,
Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head & Neck
Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 152.

National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders (NIDCD).
Noise-induced hearing loss. NIH Pub. No. 14-4233.
www.nidcd.nih.gov/health/noise-induced-hearing-loss. Updated February 7, 2017.
Accessed June 14, 2018.

## Review Date 5/17/2018

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hearing Disorders and
Deafness](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HearingDisordersandDeafness_thumb.jpg)Hearing
Disorders and Deafness _Read more_

![Occupational
Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/OccupationalHealth_thumb.jpg)Occupational
Health _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

