Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/anatomyvideos/000063.htm    
                                Description: As sound waves enter the ear, they travel through the outer ear, the external auditory canal, and strike the eardrum causing it to vibrate.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Videos & Tools ->

Health Videos ->

Hearing and the cochlea

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/anatomyvideos/000063.htm

# Hearing and the cochlea

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Play health video: //medlineplus.gov/ency/videos/mov/200057_eng.mp4

What's this?Play health video with audio description:
//medlineplus.gov/ency/videos/mov/200057_eng_ad.mp4

## Overview

As sound waves enter the ear, they travel through the outer ear, the external
auditory canal, and strike the eardrum causing it to vibrate.

The central part of the eardrum is connected to a small bone of the middle ear
called the malleus (hammer). As the malleus vibrates, it transmits the sound
vibrations to the other two small bones or ossicles of the middle ear, the
incus and stapes.

As the stapes moves, it pushes a structure called the oval window in and out.
This action is passed onto the cochlea, which is a fluid-filled snail-like
structure that contains the receptor organ for hearing.

The cochlea contains the spiral organ of Corti, which is the receptor organ
for hearing. It consists of tiny hair cells that translate the fluid vibration
of sounds from its surrounding ducts into electrical impulses that are carried
to the brain by sensory nerves.

As the stapes rocks back and forth against the oval window, it transmits
pressure waves of sound through the fluid of the cochlea, sending the organ of
Corti in the cochlear duct into motion. The fibers near the cochlear apex
resonate to lower frequency sound while fibers near the oval window respond to
higher frequency sound.

## Review Date 7/12/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Cochlear Implants
    * Hearing Disorders and Deafness
    * Hearing Problems in Children

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

