Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001061.htm    
                                Description: Acoustic trauma is injury to the hearing mechanisms in the inner ear. It is due to very loud noise.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Acoustic trauma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001061.htm

# Acoustic trauma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Acoustic trauma is injury to the hearing mechanisms in the inner ear. It is
due to very loud noise.

## Causes

Acoustic trauma is a common cause of sensory hearing loss. Damage to the
hearing mechanisms within the inner ear may be caused by:

    * Explosion near the ear
    * Firing a gun near the ear
    * Long-term exposure to loud noises (such as loud music or machinery) 

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

    * Partial hearing loss that most often involves exposure to high-pitched sounds. The hearing loss may slowly get worse.
    * Noises, ringing in the ear (tinnitus).

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will most often suspect acoustic trauma if hearing
loss occurs after noise exposure. A physical exam will determine if the
eardrum is damaged. Audiometry may determine how much hearing has been lost.

## Treatment

The hearing loss may not be treatable. The goal of treatment is to protect the
ear from further damage. Eardrum repair may be needed.

A hearing aid may help you communicate. You can also learn coping skills, such
as lip reading.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Hearing loss may be permanent in the affected ear. Wearing ear protection when
around sources of loud sounds may prevent the hearing loss from getting worse.

## Possible Complications

Progressive hearing loss is the main complication of acoustic trauma.

Tinnitus (ear ringing) can also occur.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You have symptoms of acoustic trauma 
    * Hearing loss occurs or gets worse 

## Prevention

Take the following steps to help prevent hearing loss:

    * Wear protective ear plugs or earmuffs to prevent hearing damage from loud equipment.
    * Be aware of risks to your hearing from activities such as shooting guns, using chain saws, or driving motorcycles and snowmobiles.
    * DO NOT listen to loud music for long periods of time.

## Alternative Names

Injury - inner ear; Trauma - inner ear; Ear injury

## Images

    * ![Sound wave transmission](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8992t.jpg)Sound wave transmission

## References

Arts HA. Sensorineural hearing loss in adults. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund
V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head & Neck Surgery_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 150.

Lonsbury-Martin BL, Martin GK. Noise-induced hearing loss. In: Flint PW,
Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head & Neck
Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 152.

O'Handley JG, Tobin EJ, Shah AR. Otorhinolaryngology In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP,
eds. _Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 18.

## Review Date 5/17/2018

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hearing Disorders and
Deafness](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HearingDisordersandDeafness_thumb.jpg)Hearing
Disorders and Deafness _Read more_

![Noise](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Noise_thumb.jpg)Noise _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

