Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003340.htm    
                                Description: An ear exam is performed when a health care provider looks inside your ear using an instrument called an otoscope.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ear examination

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003340.htm

# Ear examination

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An ear exam is performed when a health care provider looks inside your ear
using an instrument called an otoscope.

## How the Test is Performed

The provider may dim the lights in the room.

A young child will be asked to lie on their back with the head turned to the
side, or the child's head may rest against an adult's chest.

Older children and adults may sit with the head tilted toward the shoulder
opposite the ear being examined.

The provider will gently pull up, back, or forward on the ear to straighten
the ear canal. Then, the tip of the otoscope will be placed gently into your
ear. A light beam shines through the otoscope into the ear canal. The provider
will carefully move the scope in different directions to see the inside of the
ear and eardrum. Sometimes, this view may be blocked by earwax. An ear
specialist may use a binocular microscope to get a magnified look at the ear.

The otoscope may have a plastic bulb on it, which delivers a tiny puff of air
into the outer ear canal when pressed. This is done to see how the eardrum
moves. Decreased movement can mean that there is fluid in the middle ear.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No preparation is needed for this test.

## How the Test will Feel

If there is an ear infection, there may be some discomfort or pain. The
provider will stop the test if the pain worsens.

## Why the Test is Performed

An ear exam may be done if you have an earache, ear infection, hearing loss,
or other ear symptoms.

Examining the ear also helps the provider see if treatment for an ear problem
is working.

## Normal Results

The ear canal differs in size, shape, and color from person to person.
Normally, the canal is skin-colored and has small hairs. Yellowish-brown
earwax may be present. The eardrum is a light-gray color or a shiny pearly-
white. Light should reflect off the eardrum surface.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Ear infections are a common problem, especially with small children. A dull or
absent light reflex from the eardrum may be a sign of a middle ear infection
or fluid. The eardrum may be red and bulging if there is an infection. Amber
liquid or bubbles behind the eardrum are often seen if fluid collects in the
middle ear.

Abnormal results may also be due to an external ear infection. You might feel
pain when the outer ear is pulled or wiggled. The ear canal may be red,
tender, swollen, or filled with yellowish-green pus.

The test may also be done for the following conditions:

    * Cholesteatoma
    * External ear infection - chronic
    * Head injury
    * Ruptured or perforated eardrum

## Risks

An infection can be spread from one ear to the other if the instrument used to
look inside the ear has not been cleaned well.

## Considerations

Not all ear problems can be detected by looking through an otoscope. Other ear
and hearing tests may be needed.

Otoscopes sold for at-home use are lower quality than the ones used at the
provider's office. Parents may not be able to recognize some of the subtle
signs of an ear problem. See a provider if there are symptoms of:

    * Severe ear pain
    * Hearing loss
    * Dizziness
    * Fever
    * Ringing in the ears
    * Ear discharge or bleeding

## Alternative Names

Otoscopy

## Images

    * ![Ear anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23221t.jpg)Ear anatomy
    * ![Medical findings based on ear anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1126t.jpg)Medical findings based on ear anatomy
    * ![Otoscopic exam of the ear](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8991t.jpg)Otoscopic exam of the ear

## References

King EF, Couch ME. History, physical examination, and the preoperative
evaluation. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings
Otolaryngology: Head and Neck Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 4.

Murr AH. Approach to the patient with nose, sinus, and ear disorders. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 426.

## Review Date 2/27/2019

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Ear Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EarDisorders_thumb.jpg)Ear
Disorders _Read more_

![Ear Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EarInfection_thumb.jpg)Ear
Infections _Read more_

![Hearing Disorders and
Deafness](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HearingDisordersandDeafness_thumb.jpg)Hearing
Disorders and Deafness _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

