Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000495.htm    
                                Description: Adults and children are commonly exposed to loud music. Listening to loud music through ear buds connected to devices like iPods or MP3 players or at music concerts can cause hearing loss.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hearing loss and music

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000495.htm

# Hearing loss and music

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Adults and children are commonly exposed to loud music. Listening to loud
music through ear buds connected to devices like iPods or MP3 players or at
music concerts can cause hearing loss.

The inner part of the ear contains tiny hair cells (nerve endings).

    * The hair cells change sound into electric signals.
    * Nerves then carry these signals to the brain, which recognizes them as sound.
    * These tiny hair cells are easily damaged by loud sounds.

The human ear is like any other body part -- too much use can damage it.

Over time, repeated exposure to loud noise and music can cause hearing loss.

## Decibels of Sound and Hearing Loss

The decibel (dB) is a unit to measure the level of sound.

    * The softest sound that some humans can hear is 20 dB or lower.
    * Normal talking is 40 dB to 60 dB.
    * A rock concert is between 110 dB and 120 dB and can be as high as 140 dB right in front of the speakers.
    * Headphones at maximum volume are 105 dB. 

The risk of damage to your hearing when listening to music depends on:

    * How loud the music is
    * How close you may be to the speakers
    * How long and how often you are exposed to loud music
    * Headphone use
    * Family history of hearing loss 

Activities or jobs that increase your chance of hearing loss from music are:

    * Being a musician, sound crew member, or recording engineer
    * Working at a night club
    * Attending concerts
    * Using portable music devices with headphones or ear buds 

Children who play in school bands can be exposed to high decibel sounds,
depending on which instruments they sit near or play.

## When at a Concert

Rolled-up napkins or tissues do almost nothing to protect your ears at
concerts.

Two types of earplugs are available to wear:

    * Foam or silicone earplugs, available at drugstores, help reduce noise. They will muffle sounds and voices but may fit poorly.
    * Custom-fit musician earplugs fit better than foam or silicone ones and do not change the sound quality. 

Other tips while in music venues are:

    * Sit at least 10 feet (3 m) or more away from speakers
    * Take breaks in quieter areas. Limit your time around noise.
    * Move around the venue to find a quieter spot.
    * Avoid having others shout in your ear to be heard. This can cause further harm to your ears.
    * Avoid too much alcohol, which can make you unaware of the pain louder sounds can cause. 

Rest your ears for 24 hours after exposure to loud music to give them a chance
to recover.

## How to Listen to Music on Your iPod or MP3 Player

The small ear bud style headphones (inserted into the ears) DO NOT block
outside sounds. Users tend to turn up the volume to block out other noise.
Using noise-cancelling earphones may help you keep the volume down because you
can more easily hear the music.

If you wear headphones, the volume is too loud if a person standing near you
can hear the music through your headphones.

Other tips about headphones are:

    * Decrease the amount of time you use headphones.
    * Turn down the volume. Listening to music at level 5 or above for just 15 minutes per day may cause long-term hearing damage.
    * Do not raise the volume past the halfway point on the volume bar when using headphones. Or, use the volume limiter on your device. This will prevent you from turning the sound up too high. 

## When to Call the Doctor

If you have ringing in your ears or your hearing is muffled for more than 24
hours after exposure to loud music, have your hearing checked by an
audiologist.

See your health care provider for signs of hearing loss if:

    * Some sounds seem louder than they should be.
    * It is easier to hear men's voices than women's voices.
    * You have trouble telling high-pitched sounds (such as "s" or "th") from one another.
    * Other people's voices sound mumbled or slurred.
    * You need to turn the television or radio up or down.
    * You have ringing or a full feeling in your ears.

## Alternative Names

Noise induced hearing loss - music; Sensory hearing loss - music

## References

Arts HA. Sensorineural hearing loss in adults. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund
V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head & Neck Surgery_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 150.

Eggermont JJ. Causes of acquired hearing loss. In: Eggermont JJ. _Hearing
Loss_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 6.

Lonsbury-Martin BL, Martin GK. Noise-induced hearing loss. In: Flint PW,
Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head & Neck
Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 152.

National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders website.
Noise-induced hearing loss. www.nidcd.nih.gov/health/noise-induced-hearing-
loss. Updated February 7, 2017. Accessed September 12, 2018.

## Review Date 5/17/2018

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.
Editorial update 09-24-18.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Hearing Disorders and Deafness
    * Noise

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

