Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003341.htm    
                                Description: An audiometry exam tests your ability to hear sounds. Sounds vary, based on their loudness (intensity) and the speed of sound wave vibrations (tone).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Audiometry

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003341.htm

# Audiometry

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An audiometry exam tests your ability to hear sounds. Sounds vary, based on
their loudness (intensity) and the speed of sound wave vibrations (tone).

Hearing occurs when sound waves stimulate the nerves of the inner ear. The
sound then travels along nerve pathways to the brain.

Sound waves can travel to the inner ear through the ear canal, eardrum, and
bones of the middle ear (air conduction). They can also pass through the bones
around and behind the ear (bone conduction).

The INTENSITY of sound is measured in decibels (dB):

    * A whisper is about 20 dB.
    * Loud music (some concerts) is around 80 to 120 dB.
    * A jet engine is about 140 to 180 dB.

Sounds greater than 85 dB can cause hearing loss after a few hours. Louder
sounds can cause immediate pain, and hearing loss can develop in a very short
time.

The TONE of sound is measured in cycles per second (cps) or Hertz:

    * Low bass tones range around 50 to 60 Hz.
    * Shrill, high-pitched tones range around 10,000 Hz or higher.

The normal range of human hearing is about 20 to 20,000 Hz. Some animals can
hear up to 50,000 Hz. Human speech is usually 500 to 3,000 Hz.

## How the Test is Performed

Your health care provider may test your hearing with simple tests that can be
done in the office. These may include completing a questionnaire and listening
to whispered voices, tuning forks, or tones from an ear examination scope.

A specialized tuning fork test can help determine the type of hearing loss.
The tuning fork is tapped and held in the air on each side of the head to test
the ability to hear by air conduction. It is tapped and placed against the
bone behind each ear (mastoid bone) to test bone conduction.

A formal hearing testing can give a more exact measure of hearing. Several
tests may be done:

    * Pure tone testing (audiogram) -- For this test, you wear earphones attached to the audiometer. Pure tones are delivered to one ear at a time. You are asked to signal when you hear a sound. The minimum volume required to hear each tone is graphed. A device called a bone oscillator is placed against the mastoid bone to test bone conduction.
    * Speech audiometry -- This tests your ability to detect and repeat spoken words at different volumes heard through a head set.
    * Immittance audiometry -- This test measures the function of the ear drum and the flow of sound through the middle ear. A probe is inserted into the ear and air is pumped through it to change the pressure within the ear as tones are produced. A microphone monitors how well sound is conducted within the ear under different pressures.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special steps are needed.

## How the Test will Feel

There is no discomfort. The length of time varies. An initial screening may
take about 5 to 10 minutes. Detailed audiometry may take about 1 hour.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test can detect hearing loss at an early stage. It may also be used when
you have hearing problems from any cause.

## Normal Results

Normal results include:

    * The ability to hear a whisper, normal speech, and a ticking watch is normal.
    * The ability to hear a tuning fork through air and bone is normal.
    * In detailed audiometry, hearing is normal if you can hear tones from 250 to 8,000 Hz at 25 dB or lower.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

There are many kinds and degrees of hearing loss. In some types, you only lose
the ability to hear high or low tones, or you lose only air or bone
conduction. The inability to hear pure tones below 25 dB indicates some
hearing loss.

The amount and type of hearing loss may give clues to the cause, and chances
of recovering your hearing.

The following conditions may affect test results:

    * Acoustic neuroma
    * Acoustic trauma from a very loud or intense blast sound
    * Age-related hearing loss
    * Alport syndrome
    * Chronic ear infections
    * Labyrinthitis
    * MÃ©niÃ¨re disease
    * Ongoing exposure to loud noise, such as at work or from music
    * Abnormal bone growth in the middle ear, called otosclerosis
    * Ruptured or perforated eardrum 

## Risks

There is no risk.

## Considerations

Other tests may be used to determine how well the inner ear and brain pathways
are working. One of these is otoacoustic emission testing (OAE) that detects
sounds given off by the inner ear when responding to sound. This test is often
done as part of a newborn screening. A head MRI may be done to help diagnose
hearing loss due to an acoustic neuroma.

## Alternative Names

Audiometry; Hearing test; Audiography (audiogram)

## Images

    * ![Ear anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23221t.jpg)Ear anatomy

## References

American Hearing Research Foundation. hearing testing. www.american-
hearing.org/disorders/hearing-testing/#bedside. Accessed September 11, 2018.

Handelsman JA, Van Riper LA, Lesperance MM. Early detection and diagnosis of
infant hearing impairment. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds.
_Cummings Otolaryngology: HeadÂ and Neck Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 191.  

Kileny PR, Zwolan TA. Diagnostic audiology. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V,
et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: HeadÂ and Neck Surgery_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 133.

Lew HL, Tanaka C, Hirohata E, Goodrich GL. Auditory, vestibular, and visual
impairments. In: Cifu DX, ed. Braddomâs Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation.
5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 50.

## Review Date 5/17/2018

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.
Editorial update 10/01/2018.

![Hearing Disorders and
Deafness](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HearingDisordersandDeafness_thumb.jpg)Hearing
Disorders and Deafness _Read more_

![Hearing Problems in
Children](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HearingProblemsinChildren_thumb.jpg)Hearing
Problems in Children _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

