Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000360.htm    
                                Description: If you are living with hearing loss, you know that it takes extra effort to communicate with others.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Living with hearing loss

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000360.htm

# Living with hearing loss

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

If you are living with hearing loss, you know that it takes extra effort to
communicate with others.

There are techniques you can learn to improve communication and avoid stress.
These techniques can also help you:

    * Avoid becoming socially isolated
    * Remain more independent
    * Be safer wherever you are 

## Managing the Environment

Many things in your surroundings can affect how well you hear and understand
what others are saying. These include:

    * The type of room or space you are in, and how the room is set up.
    * The distance between you and the person talking. Sound fades over distance, so you will be able to hear better if you are closer to the speaker.
    * The presence of distracting background sounds, such as heat and air conditioning, traffic noises, or the radio or TV. In order for speech to be heard easily, it should be 20 to 25 decibels louder than any other surrounding noises.
    * Hard floors and other surfaces that cause sounds to bounce and echo. It is easier to hear in rooms with carpeting and upholstered furniture. 

Changes in your house or office can help you hear better:

    * Make sure there is enough lighting to see facial features and other visual cues.
    * Position your chair so that your back is to a light source rather than your eyes.
    * If your hearing is better in one ear, position your chair so the person talking is more likely to speak into your stronger ear. 

## When Taking Part in a Conversation

To better follow a conversation:

    * Stay alert and pay close attention to what the other person is saying.
    * Notify the person with whom you are speaking of your hearing difficulty.
    * Listen to the flow of the conversation for a while, if there are things you do not pick up at first. Certain words or phrases will often come up again in most conversations.
    * If you become lost, stop the conversation and ask for something to be repeated.
    * Use a technique called speech reading to help understand what is being said. This method involves watching a person's face, posture, gestures, and tone of voice to get the meaning of what is being said. This is different from lip reading. There needs to be enough light in the room to see the other person's face in order to use this technique.
    * Carry a notepad and pencil and ask for a key word or phrase to be written down if you do not catch it.

## What Else

Many different devices to help people with hearing loss are available. If you
are using hearing aids, regular visits with your audiologist are important.

People around you can also learn methods to help them talk to a person with
hearing loss.

## References

Andrews J. Optimizing the built environment for frail older adults. In: Fillit
HM, Rockwood K, Young J, eds. _Brocklehurst's Textbook of Geriatric Medicine
and Gerontology_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 132.

Dugan MB. _Living with Hearing Loss_. Washington DC: Gallaudet University
Press; 2003.

Eggermont JJ. Hearing aids. In: Eggermont JJ, ed. _Hearing Loss_. Cambridge,
MA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 9.

National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders (NIDCD)
website. Assistive devices for people with hearing, voice, speech, or language
disorders. www.nidcd.nih.gov/health/assistive-devices-people-hearing-voice-
speech-or-language-disorders. Updated March 6, 2017. Accessed June 16, 2019.

Oliver M. Communication devices and electronic aids to activities of daily
living. In: Webster JB, Murphy DP, eds. _Atlas of Orthoses and Assistive
Devices_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 40.

## Review Date 5/22/2019

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Hearing Disorders and Deafness

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

