Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003291.htm    
                                Description: Sensorineural deafness is a type of hearing loss. It occurs from damage to the inner ear, the nerve that runs from the ear to the brain (auditory nerve), or the brain.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Sensorineural deafness

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003291.htm

# Sensorineural deafness

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Sensorineural deafness is a type of hearing loss. It occurs from damage to the
inner ear, the nerve that runs from the ear to the brain (auditory nerve), or
the brain.

## Considerations

Symptoms may include:

    * Some sounds seem overly loud in one ear.
    * You have problems following conversations when two or more people are talking.
    * You have problems hearing in noisy areas.
    * It is easier to hear men's voices than women's voices.
    * It is hard to tell high-pitched sounds (such as "s" or "th") from one another.
    * Other people's voices sound mumbled or slurred.
    * You have problems hearing when there is background noise.

Other symptoms include:

    * Feeling of being off-balance or dizzy (more common with Meniere disease and acoustic neuromas)
    * Ringing or buzzing sound in the ears (tinnitus) 

## Causes

The inner part of the ear contains tiny hair cells (nerve endings), that
change sounds into electric signals. The nerves then carry these signals to
the brain.

Sensorineural hearing loss (SNHL) is caused by damage to these special cells,
or to the nerve fibers in the inner ear. Sometimes, the hearing loss is caused
by damage to the nerve that carries the signals to the brain.

Sensorineural deafness that is present at birth (congenital) is most often due
to:

    * Genetic syndromes
    * Infections that the mother passes to her baby in the womb (toxoplasmosis, rubella, herpes)

Sensorineural hearing loss may develop in children or adults later in life
(acquired) as a result of:

    * Age-related hearing loss
    * Disease of the blood vessels
    * Immune disease
    * Infections, such as meningitis, mumps, scarlet fever, and measles
    * Injury
    * Loud noises or sounds, or loud sounds that last for a long time
    * Meniere disease
    * Tumor, such as acoustic neuroma
    * Use of certain medicines
    * Working around loud noises every day

In some cases, the cause is unknown.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The goal of treatment is to improve your hearing. The following may be
helpful:

    * Hearing aids
    * Telephone amplifiers and other assistive devices
    * Safety and alert systems for your home  

    * Sign language (for those with severe hearing loss)
    * Speech reading (such as lip reading and using visual cues to aid communication)

A cochlear implant may be recommended for certain people with very severe
hearing loss. Surgery is done to place the implant. The implant makes sounds
seem louder, but does not restore normal hearing.

You will also learn strategies for living with hearing loss and advice to
share with those around you for talking to someone with hearing loss.

## Alternative Names

Nerve deafness; Hearing loss - sensorineural; Acquired hearing loss; SNHL;
Noise-induced hearing loss; NIHL; Presbycusis

## Images

    * ![Ear anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1092t.jpg)Ear anatomy

## References

Arts HA. Sensorineural hearing loss in adults. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund
V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head & Neck Surgery_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 150.

Eggermont JJ. Types of hearing loss. In: Eggermont JJ, ed. _Hearing Loss_.
Cambridge, MA: Elsevier Academic Press; 2017:chap 5.

Lonsbury-Martin BL, Martin GK. Noise-induced hearing loss. In: Flint PW,
Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head & Neck
Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 152.  

National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders. Noise-
induced hearing loss. NIH Pub. No. 14-4233. www.nidcd.nih.gov/health/noise-
induced-hearing-loss. Updated February 7, 2017. Accessed September 12, 2018.

Shibata SB, Shearer AE, Smith RJH. Genetic sensorineural hearing loss. In:
Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head &
Neck Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 148.

## Review Date 5/17/2018

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.
Editorial update 10/23/2018.

![Hearing Disorders and
Deafness](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HearingDisordersandDeafness_thumb.jpg)Hearing
Disorders and Deafness _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

