Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001428.htm    
                                Description: Waardenburg syndrome is a group of conditions passed down through families. The syndromeÂ involvesÂ deafness and pale skin, hair, and eye color.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Waardenburg syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001428.htm

# Waardenburg syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Waardenburg syndrome is a group of conditions passed down through families.
The syndromeÂ involvesÂ deafness and pale skin, hair, and eye color.

## Causes

Waardenburg syndrome is most often inherited as an autosomal dominant trait.
This means only one parent has to pass on the faulty gene for a child to be
affected.

There are four main types of Waardenburg syndrome. The most common are type I
and type II.

Type III (Klein-Waardenburg syndrome) and type IV (Waardenburg-Shah syndrome)
are rarer.

The multiple types of this syndrome result from defects in different genes.
Most people with this disease have a parent with the disease, but the symptoms
in the parent can be quite different from those in the child.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

    * Cleft lip (rare)
    * Constipation
    * Deafness (more common in type II disease)
    * Extremely pale blue eyes or eye colors that don't match (heterochromia)
    * Pale color skin, hair, and eyes (partial albinism)
    * Difficulty completely straightening joints
    * Possible slight decrease in intellectual function
    * Wide-set eyes (in type I)
    * White patch of hair or early graying of the hair 

Less common types of this disease may cause problems with the arms or
intestines.

## Exams and Tests

Tests may include:

    * Audiometry
    * Bowel transit time
    * Colon biopsy
    * Genetic testing

## Treatment

There is no specific treatment. Symptoms will be treated as needed. Special
diets and medicines to keep the bowel moving are prescribed to those people
who have constipation. Hearing should be checked closely.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Once hearing problems are corrected, most people with this syndrome should be
able to lead a normal life. Those with rarer forms of the syndrome may have
other complications.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Constipation severe enough to require part of large bowel to be removed
    * Hearing loss
    * Self-esteem problems, or other problems related to appearance
    * Slight decreased intellectual functioning (possible, unusual)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Genetic counseling may be helpful if you have a family history of Waardenburg
syndrome and plan to have children. Call your health care provider for a
hearing test if you or your child has deafness or decreased hearing.

## Alternative Names

Klein-Waardenburg syndrome; Waardenburg-Shah syndrome

## Images

    * ![Broad nasal bridge](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17097t.jpg)Broad nasal bridge
    * ![Sense of hearing](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8684t.jpg)Sense of hearing

## References

Cipriano SD, Zone JJ. Neurocutaneous disease. In: Callen JP, Jorizzo JL, Zone
JJ, Piette WW, Rosenbach MA, Vleugels RA, eds. _Dermatological Signs of
Systemic Disease_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 40.

Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM. Defects in
metabolism of amino acids. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS,
Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 103.

Milunsky JM. Waardenburg syndrome type I. _GeneReviews_. 2017. PMID: 20301703
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20301703. Updated May 4, 2017. Accessed July 31,
2019.

## Review Date 7/29/2019

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Hearing Disorders and
Deafness](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HearingDisordersandDeafness_thumb.jpg)Hearing
Disorders and Deafness _Read more_

![Trastornos de pigmentaciÃ³n de la
piel](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinPigmentationDisorders_thumb.jpg)Skin
Pigmentation Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

