Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001036.htm    
                                Description: Otosclerosis is an abnormal bone growth in the middle ear that causes hearing loss.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Otosclerosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001036.htm

# Otosclerosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Otosclerosis is an abnormal bone growth in the middle ear that causes hearing
loss.

## Causes

The exact cause of otosclerosis is unknown. It may be passed down through
families.

People who have otosclerosis have an abnormal extension of sponge-like bone
growing in the middle ear cavity. This growth prevents the ear bones from
vibrating in response to sound waves. These vibrations are needed in order for
you to hear.

Otosclerosis is the most common cause of middle ear hearing loss in young
adults. It typically begins in early to mid-adulthood. It is more common in
women than in men. The condition may affect one or both ears.

Risks for this condition include pregnancy and a family history of hearing
loss. White people are more likely to develop this condition than people of
other races.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

    * Hearing loss (slow at first, but worsens over time)
    * Ringing in the ears (tinnitus)
    * Vertigo or dizziness 

## Exams and Tests

A hearing test (audiometry/audiology) may help determine the severity of
hearing loss.

A special imaging test of the head called a temporal-bone CT may be used to
look for other causes of hearing loss.

## Treatment

Otosclerosis may slowly get worse. The condition may not need to be treated
until you have more serious hearing problems.

Using some medicines such as fluoride, calcium, or vitamin D may help to slow
the hearing loss. However, the benefits of these treatments have not yet been
proven.

A hearing aid may be used to treat the hearing loss. This will not cure or
prevent hearing loss from getting worse, but it may help with symptoms.

Surgery can cure or improve conductive hearing loss. Either all or part of one
of the small middle ear bones behind the eardrum (stapes) is removed and
replaced with a prosthesis.

    * A total replacement is called a stapedectomy.
    * Sometimes only part of the stapes is removed and a small hole is made in the bottom of it. This is called a stapedotomy. Sometimes a laser is used to help with the surgery. 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Otosclerosis gets worse without treatment. Surgery can restore some or all of
your hearing loss. Pain and dizziness from the surgery go away within a few
weeks for most people.

To reduce the risk of complications after surgery:

    * DO NOT blow your nose for 2 to 3 weeks after surgery.
    * Avoid people with respiratory or other infections.
    * Avoid bending, lifting, or straining, which may cause dizziness.
    * Avoid loud noises or sudden pressure changes, such as scuba diving, flying, or driving in the mountains until you have healed. 

If surgery does not work, you may have total hearing loss. Treatment for total
hearing loss involves developing skills to cope with deafness, and using
hearing aids to transmit sounds from the non-hearing ear to the good ear.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Complete deafness
    * Funny taste in the mouth or loss of taste to part of the tongue, temporary or permanent
    * Infection, dizziness, pain, or a blood clot in the ear after surgery
    * Nerve damage 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if:

    * You have hearing loss
    * You develop fever, ear pain, dizziness, or other symptoms after surgery 

## Alternative Names

Otospongiosis; Hearing loss - otosclerosis

## Images

    * ![Ear anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1092t.jpg)Ear anatomy

## References

House JW, Cunningham CD. Otosclerosis. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et
al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head & Neck Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 144.

O'Handley JG, Tobin EJ, Shah AR. Otorhinolaryngology In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP,
eds. _Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 18.

## Review Date 5/17/2018

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Ear Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EarDisorders_thumb.jpg)Ear
Disorders _Read more_

![Hearing Disorders and
Deafness](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HearingDisordersandDeafness_thumb.jpg)Hearing
Disorders and Deafness _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

