Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000434.htm    
                                Description: You are likely excited about going home after being in the hospital, skilled nursing center, or rehabilitation facility.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Home health care

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000434.htm

# Home health care

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You are likely excited about going home after being in the hospital, skilled
nursing center, or rehabilitation facility.

You should probably be able to go home once you are able to:

    * Get into and out of a chair or bed without much help
    * Walk around with your cane, crutches, or walker
    * Walk between your bedroom, bathroom, and kitchen
    * Go up and down stairs 

## Help you may Need at Home

Going home does not mean you no longer need medical care. You may need help:

    * Doing simple, prescribed exercises
    * Changing wound dressings
    * Taking medicines, fluids, or feedings through catheters that have been placed into your veins
    * Learning to monitor your blood pressure, your weight, or your heart rate
    * Managing urine catheters and wounds
    * Taking your medicines correctly 

Also, you may still need help taking care of yourself at home. Common needs
include help with:

    * Moving in and out of beds, baths, or cars
    * Dressing and grooming
    * Emotional support
    * Changing bed linens, washing and ironing laundry, and cleaning
    * Buying, preparing, and serving meals
    * Buying household supplies or running errands
    * Personal care, such as bathing, dressing, or grooming 

## Help From Family Members and Friends

While you may have family and friends to help, they must be able to do all the
tasks and provide all the help you need to ensure you have a quick and safe
recovery.

If not, talk to the hospital social worker or discharge nurse about getting
help in your home. They may be able to have someone come to your home and
determine what help you may need.

## Types of Home Care

Besides family members and friends, many different types of care providers can
come into your home to help with movement and exercises, wound care, and daily
living.

Home health care nurses can help manage problems with your wound, other
medical problems, and any medicines that you may be taking.

Physical and occupational therapists can make sure your home is set up so that
it will be easy and safe to move around and take care of yourself. They may
also help with exercises when you first get home.

You will need a referral from your doctor to have these providers visit your
home. Your health insurance will often pay for these visits if you have a
referral. But you should still make sure it is covered.

Other types of assistance are available for tasks or issues that do not
require the medical knowledge of nurses and therapists. Names of some of these
professionals include:

    * Home health aide (HHA)
    * Certified nursing assistant (CNA)
    * Caregiver
    * Direct support person
    * Personal care attendant 

Sometimes, insurance will pay for visits from these professionals, as well.

## Alternative Names

Home health; Skilled nursing - home health; Skilled nursing - home care;
Physical therapy - at home; Occupational therapy - at home; Discharge - home
health care

## References

Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services website. What's home health care?
www.medicare.gov/what-medicare-covers/whats-home-health-care. Accessed on
February 11, 2018.

Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services website. What is home health
compare? www.medicare.gov/HomeHealthCompare/About/What-Is-HHC.html. Accessed
on February 11, 2018.

Heflin MT, Cohen HJ. The aging patient. In: Benjamin IJ, Griggs RC, Wing EJ,
Fitz JG, eds. _Andreoli and Carpenter's Cecil Essentials of Medicine_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 124.

## Review Date 1/14/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. Editorial update
09-19-18.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Home Care Services

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

