Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000555.htm    
                                Description: Postherpetic neuralgia is pain that continues after a bout of shingles. This pain may last from months to years.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Postherpetic neuralgia - aftercare

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000555.htm

# Postherpetic neuralgia - aftercare

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Postherpetic neuralgia is pain that continues after a bout of shingles. This
pain may last from months to years.

Shingles is a painful, blistering skin rash that is caused by the varicella-
zoster virus. This is the same virus that causes chickenpox. Shingles is also
called herpes zoster.

## What to Expect

Postherpetic neuralgia can:

    * Limit your everyday activities and make it hard to work.
    * Affect how involved you are with friends and family.
    * Cause feelings of frustration, resentment, and stress. These feelings may make your pain worse. 

## Taking Pain Medicines

Even though there is no cure for postherpetic neuralgia, there are ways to
treat your pain and discomfort.

You can take a type of medicine called NSAIDs. You do not need a prescription
for these.

    * Two kinds of NSAIDs are ibuprofen (such as Advil or Motrin) and naproxen (such as Aleve or Naprosyn).
    * If you have heart disease, high blood pressure, kidney disease, or have had stomach ulcers or bleeding, talk with your health care provider before using these medicines.

You may also take acetaminophen (such as Tylenol) for pain relief. If you have
liver disease, talk with your provider before using it.

Your provider may prescribe a narcotic pain reliever. You may be advised to
take them:

    * Only when you have pain
    * On a regular schedule, if your pain is hard to control 

A narcotic pain reliever can:

    * Make you feel sleepy and confused. DO NOT drink alcohol or use heavy machinery while you are taking it.
    * Make your skin feel itchy.
    * Make you constipated (unable to have a bowel movement easily). Try to drink more fluids, eat high-fiber foods, or use stool softeners.
    * Cause nausea, or make you feel sick to your stomach. Taking the medicine with food may help. 

## Other Medicines for Postherpetic Neuralgia

Your provider may recommend skin patches that contain lidocaine (a numbing
medicine). Some are prescribed and some you can buy on your own at the
pharmacy. These may relieve some of your pain for a short time. Lidocaine also
comes as a cream that can be applied to areas where a patch is not easily
applied.

Zostrix, a cream that contains capsaicin (an extract of pepper), may also
reduce your pain.

Two other types of prescription drugs may help reduce your pain:

    * Anti-seizure drugs, such as gabapentin and pregabalin, are used most often.
    * Drugs to treat pain and depression, most often ones called tricyclics, such as amitriptyline or nortriptyline. 

You must take the medicines every day. They may take several weeks before they
begin to help. Both of these types of drugs have side effects. If you have
uncomfortable side effects, do not stop taking your medicine without talking
with your provider first. Your provider may change your dosage or prescribe a
different medicine.

Sometimes, a nerve block can be used to temporarily reduce pain. Your provider
will tell you if this is right for you.

## What Else can Help?

Many non-medical techniques can help you relax and reduce the stress of
chronic pain, such as:

    * Meditation
    * Deep-breathing exercises
    * Biofeedback
    * Self-hypnosis
    * Muscle-relaxing techniques 
    * Acupuncture

A common type of talk therapy for people with chronic pain is called cognitive
behavioral therapy. It may help you learn how to cope with and manage your
responses to pain.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

    * Your pain is not well-managed
    * You think you may be depressed or are having a hard time controlling your emotions

## Alternative Names

Herpes zoster - postherpetic neuralgia; Varicella-zoster - postherpetic
neuralgia; Shingles - pain

## References

Habif TP. Warts, herpes simplex, and other viral infections. In: Habif TP, ed.
_Clinical Dermatology: A Color Guide to Diagnosis and Therapy_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 12.

Whitley RJ. Chickenpox and herpes zoster (varicella-zoster virus). In: Bennett
JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and
Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 139.

## Review Date 4/15/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Shingles

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

