Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000858.htm    
                                Description: Shingles (herpes zoster) is a painful, blistering skin rash. It is caused by the varicella-zoster virus. This is the virus that also causes chickenpox.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Shingles

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000858.htm

# Shingles

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Shingles (herpes zoster) is a painful, blistering skin rash. It is caused by
the varicella-zoster virus. This is the virus that also causes chickenpox.

![Herpes zoster \(shingles\) - close-up of
lesion](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/2163.jpg)

## Causes

After you get chickenpox, your body does not get rid of the virus. Instead,
the virus remains in the body, but is inactive (becomes dormant) in certain
nerves in the body. Shingles occurs after the virus becomes active again in
these nerves after many years. Many people had such a mild case of chickenpox
that they do not realize they have had the infection.

The reason the virus suddenly becomes active again is not clear. Often only
one attack occurs.

Shingles can develop in any age group. You are more likely to develop the
condition if:

    * You are older than age 60
    * You had chickenpox before age 1
    * Your immune system is weakened by medicines or disease 

If an adult or child has direct contact with the shingles rash and did not
have chickenpox as a child or get the chickenpox vaccine, they can develop
chickenpox, not shingles.

## Symptoms

The first symptom is usually pain, tingling, or burning that occurs on one
side of the body. The pain and burning may be severe and are usually present
before any rash appears.

![Shingles](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19687.jpg)

Red patches on the skin, followed by small blisters, form in most people:

    * The blisters break, forming small sores that begin to dry and form crusts. The crusts fall off in 2 to 3 weeks. Scarring is rare.
    * The rash usually involves a narrow area from the spine around to the front of the abdomen or chest.
    * The rash may involve the face, eyes, mouth, and ears. 
![Herpes zoster \(shingles\) on the neck and
cheek](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/2515.jpg)

Other symptoms may include:

    * Fever and chills
    * General ill feeling
    * Headache
    * Joint pain
    * Swollen glands (lymph nodes) 

You may also have pain, muscle weakness, and a rash involving different parts
of your face if shingles affects a nerve in your face. The symptoms may
include:

    * Difficulty moving some of the muscles in the face
    * Drooping eyelid (ptosis)
    * Hearing loss
    * Loss of eye motion
    * Taste problems
    * Vision problems 

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider can make the diagnosis by looking at your skin and
asking about your medical history.

Tests are rarely needed, but may include taking a skin sample to see if the
skin is infected with the virus.

Blood tests may show an increase in white blood cells and antibodies to the
chickenpox virus. But the testsÂ cannot confirm that the rash is due to
shingles.

## Treatment

Your provider may prescribe a medicine that fights the virus, called an
antiviral drug. This drug helps reduce pain, prevent complications, and
shorten the course of the disease.

The medicines are most effective when started within 72 hours of when you
first feel pain or burning. It is best to start taking them before the
blisters appear. The medicines are usually given in pill form. Some people may
need to receive the medicine through a vein (by IV).

Strong anti-inflammatory medicines called corticosteroids, such as prednisone,
may be used to reduce swelling and pain. These medicinesÂ do notÂ work in all
people.

Other medicines may include:

    * Antihistamines to reduce itching (taken by mouth or applied to the skin)
    * Pain medicines
    * Zostrix, a cream containing capsaicin (an extract of pepper) to reduce pain

Follow your provider's instructions about how to care for yourself at home.

Other measures may include:

    * Caring for your skin by applying cool, wet compresses to reduce pain, and taking soothing baths
    * Resting in bed until the fever goes down

Stay away from people while your sores are oozing to avoid infecting those who
have never had chickenpox -- especially pregnant women.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Herpes zoster usually clears in 2 to 3 weeks and rarely returns. If the virus
affects the nerves that control movement (the motor nerves), you may have
temporary or permanent weakness or paralysis.

Sometimes the pain in the area where the shingles occurred may last from
months to years. This pain is called postherpetic neuralgia.

It occurs when the nerves have been damaged after an outbreak of shingles.
Pain ranges from mild to very severe. Postherpetic neuralgia is more likely to
occur in people over age 60.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Another attack of shingles
    * Bacterial skin infections
    * Blindness (if shingles occurs in the eye)
    * Deafness
    * Infection, including encephalitis of sepsis (blood infection) in people with a weakened immune system
    * Ramsay Hunt syndrome if shingles affects the nerves of the face or ear 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of shingles, particularly if you have
a weakened immune system or if your symptoms persist or worsen. Shingles that
affects the eye may lead to permanent blindness if youÂ do not receive
emergency medical care.

## Prevention

Do not touch the rash and blisters on people with shingles or chickenpox if
you have never had chickenpox or the chickenpox vaccine.

Two shingles vaccines are available live vaccine and recombinant. The shingles
vaccine is different than the chickenpox vaccine. Older adults who receive the
shingles vaccine are less likely to have complications from the condition.

## Alternative Names

Herpes zoster - shingles

## Images

    * ![Herpes zoster \(shingles\) on the back](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1507t.jpg)Herpes zoster (shingles) on the back
    * ![Adult dermatome](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18069t.jpg)Adult dermatome
    * ![Shingles](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19687t.jpg)Shingles
    * ![Herpes zoster \(shingles\) - close-up of lesion](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2163t.jpg)Herpes zoster (shingles) - close-up of lesion
    * ![Herpes zoster \(shingles\) on the neck and cheek](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2515t.jpg)Herpes zoster (shingles) on the neck and cheek
    * ![Herpes zoster \(shingles\) on the hand](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2665t.jpg)Herpes zoster (shingles) on the hand
    * ![Herpes zoster \(shingles\) disseminated](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2910t.jpg)Herpes zoster (shingles) disseminated

## References

Habif TP. Warts, herpes simplex, and other viral infections. In: Habif TP, ed.
_Clinical Dermatology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 12.

Whitley RJ. Chickenpox and herpes zoster (varicella-zoster virus). In: Bennett
JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and
Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 139.

## Review Date 12/1/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Shingles](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Shingles_thumb.jpg)Shingles _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

