Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000560.htm    
                                Description: Shingles is a painful, blistering skin rash that is caused by the varicella-zoster virus. This is the same virus that causes chickenpox. Shingles is also called herpes zoster.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Shingles - aftercare

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000560.htm

# Shingles - aftercare

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Shingles is a painful, blistering skin rash that is caused by the varicella-
zoster virus. This is the same virus that causes chickenpox. Shingles is also
called herpes zoster.

## What to Expect

An outbreak of shingles usually follows the following course:

    * Blisters and pimples appear on your skin and cause pain.
    * A crust forms over the blisters and pimples.
    * In 2 to 4 weeks, the blisters and pimples heal. They rarely come back.
    * Pain from shingles lasts for 2 to 4 weeks. You may have tingling or a pins-and-needles feeling, itching, burning, and a deep pain. Your skin may be very painful when it is touched.
    * You may have a fever.
    * You may have short-term weakness of certain muscles. This is rarely lifelong. 

To treat shingles, your health care provider may prescribe:

    * A medicine called an antiviral to fight the virus
    * A medicine called a corticosteroid, such as prednisone
    * Medicines to treat your pain 

You may have postherpetic neuralgia (PHN) pain. This is pain that lasts longer
than a month after symptoms of shingles start.

## Skin Care and Itch Relief for Shingles

To relieve itching and discomfort, try:

    * A cool, wet compresses on the affected skin
    * Soothing baths and lotions, such as colloidal oatmeal bath, starch baths, or calamine lotion
    * Zostrix, a cream that contains capsaicin (an extract of pepper)
    * Antihistamines to reduce itching (taken by mouth or applied to the skin) 

Keep your skin clean. Throw away bandages you use to cover your skin sores.
Throw away or wash in hot water clothing that has contact with your skin
sores. Wash your sheets and towels in hot water.

While your skin sores are still open and oozing, avoid all contact with anyone
who has never had chickenpox, especially pregnant women.

## Managing Pain

Rest in bed until your fever goes down.

For pain, you can take a type of medicine called NSAIDs. You do not need a
prescription for NSAIDs.

    * Examples of NSAIDs are ibuprofen (such as Advil or Motrin) and naproxen (such as Aleve or Naprosyn).
    * If you have heart disease, high blood pressure, kidney disease, or have had stomach ulcers or bleeding, talk with your provider before using these medicines. 

You may also take acetaminophen (such as Tylenol) for pain relief. If you have
liver disease, talk with your provider before using it.

You may be given a narcotic pain reliever. Take it only as directed. These
medicines can:

    * Make you sleepy and confused. When you are taking a narcotic, DO NOT drink alcohol or use heavy machinery.
    * Make your skin feel itchy.
    * Cause constipation (not being able to have a bowel movement easily). Try to drink more fluids, eat high-fiber foods, or use stool softeners.
    * Make you feel sick to your stomach. Try taking the medicine with food. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

    * You get a rash that looks or feels like shingles
    * Your shingles pain is not well-managed
    * Your pain symptoms do not go away after 3 to 4 weeks

## Alternative Names

Herpes zoster - treatment

## References

Habif TP. Warts, herpes simplex, and other viral infections. In: Habif TP, ed.
_Clinical Dermatology: A Color Guide to Diagnosis and Therapy_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 12.

Whitley RJ. Chickenpox and herpes zoster (varicella-zoster virus). In: Bennett
JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and
Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 139.

## Review Date 4/15/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Shingles

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

