Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001647.htm    
                                Description: Ramsay Hunt syndrome is a painful rash around the ear, on the face, or on the mouth. It occurs when the varicella-zoster virus infects a nerve in the head.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ramsay Hunt syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001647.htm

# Ramsay Hunt syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Ramsay Hunt syndrome is a painful rash around the ear, on the face, or on the
mouth. It occurs when the varicella-zoster virus infects a nerve in the head.

## Causes

The varicella-zoster virus that causes Ramsay Hunt syndrome is the same virus
that causes chickenpox and shingles.

In people with this syndrome, the virus is believed to infect the facial nerve
near the inner ear. This leads to irritation and swelling of the nerve.

The condition mainly affects adults. In rare cases, it is seen in children.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

    * Severe pain in the ear
    * Painful rash on the eardrum, ear canal, earlobe, tongue, and roof of the mouth on the side with the affected nerve
    * Hearing loss on one side
    * Sensation of things spinning (vertigo)
    * Weakness on one side of the face that causes difficulty closing one eye, eating (food falls out of the weak corner of the mouth), making expressions, and making fine movements of the face, as well as facial droop and paralysis on one side of the face

## Exams and Tests

A health care provider will usually diagnose Ramsay Hunt Syndrome by looking
for signs of weakness in the face and a blister-like rash.

Tests may include:

    * Blood tests for varicella-zoster virus
    * Electromyography (EMG)
    * Lumbar puncture (in rare cases)
    * MRI of the head
    * Nerve conduction (to determine the amount of damage to the facial nerve)
    * Skin tests for varicella-zoster virus 

## Treatment

Strong anti-inflammatory drugs called steroids (such as prednisone) are
usually given. Antiviral medicines, such as acyclovir or valacyclovir may be
given.

Sometimes strong painkillers are also needed if the pain continues even with
steroids. While you have weakness of the face, wear an eye patch to prevent
injury to the cornea (corneal abrasion) and other damage to the eye if the eye
does not close completely. Some people may use a special eye lubricant at
night and artificial tears during the day to prevent the eye from drying out.

If you have dizziness, your provider can advise other medicines.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

If there is not much damage to the nerve, you should get better completely
within a few weeks. If damage is more severe, you may not fully recover, even
after several months.

Overall, your chances of recovery are better if the treatment is started
within 3 days after the symptoms begin. When treatment is started within this
time, most people make a full recovery. If treatment is delayed for more than
3 days, there is less of a chance of complete recovery. Children are more
likely to have a complete recovery than adults.

## Possible Complications

Complications of Ramsay Hunt syndrome may include:

    * Changes in the appearance of the face (disfigurement) from loss of movement
    * Change in taste
    * Damage to the eye (corneal ulcers and infections), resulting in a loss of vision
    * Nerves that grow back to the wrong structures and cause abnormal reactions to a movement -- for example, smiling causes the eye to close
    * Persistent pain (postherpetic neuralgia)
    * Spasm of the face muscles or eyelids

Occasionally, the virus may spread to other nerves, or even to the brain and
spinal cord. This can cause:

    * Confusion
    * Drowsiness
    * Headaches
    * Limb weakness
    * Nerve pain

If these symptoms occur, a hospital stay may be needed. A spinal tap may help
determine whether other areas of the nervous system have been infected.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you lose movement in your face, or you have a rash on
your face and facial weakness.

## Prevention

There is no known way to prevent Ramsay Hunt syndrome, but treating it with
medicine soon after symptoms develop can improve recovery.

## Alternative Names

Hunt syndrome; Herpes zoster oticus; Geniculate ganglion zoster; Geniculate
herpes; Herpetic geniculate ganglionitis

## References

Brant JA, Ruckenstein MJ. Infections of the external ear. In: Flint PW,
Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 137.

Gantz BJ, Roche JP, Redleaf MI, Perry BP, Gubbels SP. Management of Bell's
palsy and Ramsay Hunt syndrome. In: Brackmann DE, Shelton C, Arriaga MA, eds.
_Otologic Surgery_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 27.

Habif TP. Warts, herpes simplex, and other viral infections. In: Habif TP, ed.
_Clinical Dermatology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 12.

Waldman SD. Ramsay Hunt syndrome. In: Waldman SD, ed. _Atlas of Uncommon Pain
Syndromes_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 13.

## Review Date 4/30/2018

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, Attending Neurologist and Assistant
Professor of Clinical Neurology, SUNY Stony Brook, School of Medicine, Stony
Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Shingles](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Shingles_thumb.jpg)Shingles _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

