Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002080.htm    
                                Description: It is never too late to start exercising. Exercise has benefits at any age. Staying active will allow you to continue being independent and the lifestyle you enjoy. The right kind of regular exercise can    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Exercise and age

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002080.htm

# Exercise and age

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

It is never too late to start exercising. Exercise has benefits at any age.
Staying active will allow you to continue being independent and the lifestyle
you enjoy. The right kind of regular exercise can also reduce your risk of
heart disease, diabetes, and falls.

## Information

You don't need to spend hours in the gym every day to see benefits. Moving
your body just 30 minutes a day is enough to improve your health.

An effective exercise program needs to be fun and helps to keep you motivated.
It helps to have a goal. Your goal might be to:

    * Manage a health condition
    * Reduce stress
    * Improve your stamina
    * Be able to buy clothes in a smaller size

Your exercise program may also be a way for you to socialize. Taking exercise
classes or exercising with a friend are both good ways to be social.

You may have a hard time starting an exercise routine. Once you do start,
though, you will begin to notice the benefits, including improved sleep and
self-esteem.

Exercise and physical activity can also:

    * Improve or maintain your strength and fitness
    * Make it easier to do the things you want to do
    * Help your balance and walking
    * Help with feelings of depression or anxiety and improve your mood
    * Maintain your thinking skills (cognitive function) as you get older
    * Prevent or treat diseases such as diabetes, heart disease, high blood pressure, breast and colon cancer, and osteoporosis

 **Always talk to your health care provider before starting an exercise
program.Â Your provider can suggest exercises and activities that are right
for you.**

Exercises can be grouped into four main categories, although many exercises
fit into more than one category:

AEROBIC EXERCISE

Aerobic exercise increases your breathing and heart rate. These exercises help
your heart, lungs, and blood vessels. They may prevent or delay many diseases,
such as diabetes, colon and breast cancers, and heart disease.

    * Aerobic sports activities include brisk walking, jogging, swimming, biking, climbing, tennis, and basketball
    * Aerobic activities you can do every day include dancing, yard work, pushing your grandchild on a swing, and vacuuming

MUSCLE STRENGTH

Improving your muscle strength can help you climb stairs, carry groceries, and
stay independent. You can build muscle strength by:

    * Lifting weights or using a resistance band
    * Performing everyday activities, such as carrying a full laundry basket from the basement, carrying your smaller grandchildren, or lifting things in the garden

BALANCE EXERCISES

Balance exercises help prevent falls, which is a concern for older adults.
Many exercises that strengthen the muscles in the legs, hips, and lower back
will improve your balance. It is often best to learn balance exercises from a
physical therapist before starting on your own.

Balance exercises may include:

    * Standing on one foot
    * Walking heel-to-toe
    * Tai chi
    * Standing on tiptoe to reach something on the top shelf
    * Walking up and down the stairs

STRETCHING

Stretching can help your body stay flexible. To stay limber:

    * Learn shoulder, upper arm, and calf stretches
    * Take yoga classes
    * Do everyday activities, such as making your bed or bending over to tie your shoes

## Alternative Names

Age and exercise

## Images

    * ![Benefit of regular exercise](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19388t.jpg)Benefit of regular exercise
    * ![Flexibility exercise](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19391t.jpg)Flexibility exercise
    * ![Exercise and age](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19478t.jpg)Exercise and age
    * ![Aging and exercise](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9309t.jpg)Aging and exercise
    * ![Weight lifting and weight loss](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17162t.jpg)Weight lifting and weight loss

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Physical activity is
essential to healthy aging.
www.cdc.gov/physicalactivity/basics/older_adults/index.htm. Updated April 19,
2019. Accessed May 31, 2019.

Piercy KL, Troiano RP, Ballard RM, et al. The physical activity guidelines for
Americans. _JAMA_. 2018;320(19):2020-2028. PMID 30418471
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30418471.

Theou O, Rose DJ. Physical activity for successful aging. In: Fillit HM,
Rockwood K, Young J, eds. _Brocklehurst's Textbook of Geriatric Medicine and
Gerontology_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 99.

## Review Date 5/13/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Exercise for
Seniors](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ExerciseforSeniors_thumb.jpg)Exercise
for Older Adults _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

