Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001000.htm    
                                Description: Macular degeneration is an eye disorder that slowly destroys sharp, central vision. This makes it difficult to see fine details and read.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Age-related macular degeneration

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001000.htm

# Age-related macular degeneration

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Macular degeneration is an eye disorder that slowly destroys sharp, central
vision. This makes it difficult to see fine details and read.

The disease is most common in people over age 60, which is why it is often
called age-related macular degeneration (ARMD or AMD).

![Macular
degeneration](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200063t.gif)Watch this
video about:Macular degeneration

## Causes

The retina is at the back of the eye. It changes light and images that enter
the eye into nerve signals that are sent to the brain. A part of the retina
called the macula makes vision sharper and more detailed. It is a yellow spot
in the center of the retina. It has a high amount of two natural colors
(pigments) called lutein and zeaxanthin.

AMD is caused by damage to the blood vessels that supply the macula. This
change also harms the macula.

There are two types of AMD:

    * Dry AMD occurs when the blood vessels under the macula become thin and brittle. Small yellow deposits, called drusen, form. Almost all people with macular degeneration start with the dry form.
    * Wet AMD occurs in about 10% of people with macular degeneration. New abnormal and very fragile blood vessels grow under the macula. These vessels leak blood and fluid. This type of AMD causes most of the vision loss associated with the condition. 

Doctors are not sure what causes AMD. The condition is rare before age 55. It
occurs most in people 75 years or older.

Risk factors for AMD are:

    * Family history of AMD
    * Being White
    * Cigarette smoking
    * High-fat diet
    * Being a woman 

## Symptoms

You may not have any symptoms at first. As the disease gets worse, you may
have problems with your central vision.

SYMPTOMS OF DRY AMD

The most common symptom of dry AMD is blurred vision. Objects in the center
part of your vision often look distorted and dim, and colors look faded. You
may have trouble reading print or seeing other details. But you can see well
enough to walk and do most daily activities.

As dry AMD gets worse, you may need more light to read or do everyday tasks. A
blurred spot in the center of vision gradually gets larger and darker.

In the later stages of dry AMD, you may not be able to recognize faces until
they are close.

SYMPTOMS OF WET AMD

The most common early symptom of wet AMD is that straight lines look distorted
and wavy.

There may be a small dark spot in the center of your vision that gets larger
over time.

With both types of AMD, central vision loss can occur quickly. If this
happens, you will need to be seen right away by an ophthalmologist. Make sure
this eye doctor has experience in treating problems with the retina.

## Exams and Tests

You will have an eye exam. Drops will be placed into your eyes to widen
(dilate) your pupils. The eye doctor will use special lenses to view your
retina, blood vessels, and optic nerve.

The eye doctor will look for specific changes in the macula and blood vessels
and for drusen.

You may be asked to cover one eye and look at a pattern of lines called an
Amsler grid. If the straight lines look wavy, it may be a sign of AMD.

Other tests that may be done include:

    * Using special dye and camera to look at blood flow in the retina (fluorescein angiogram)
    * Taking a photo of the inner lining of the eye (fundus photography)
    * Using light waves to view the retina (optical coherence tomography)
    * A test that measures the pigment in the macula 

## Treatment

If you have advanced or severe dry AMD, no treatment can restore your vision.

If you have early AMD and do not smoke, a combination of certain vitamins,
antioxidants, and zinc may prevent the disease from getting worse. But it
cannot give you back vision that is already lost.

The combination is often called the "AREDS" formula. The supplements contain:

    * 500 milligrams (mg) of vitamin C
    * 400 international units of beta-carotene
    * 80 mg of zinc
    * 2 mg of copper 

Only take this vitamin combination if your doctor recommends it. Make sure
your doctor knows about any other vitamins or supplements you are taking.
Smokers shouldÂ not use this supplement.

AREDS may also benefit you if you have a family history and risk factors for
AMD.

Lutein and zeaxanthin, which are substances found in green leafy vegetables,
may also decrease your risk for age-related macular degeneration.

If you have wet AMD, your doctor may recommend:

    * Laser surgery (laser photocoagulation) -- a small beam of light destroys the leaking, abnormal blood vessels.
    * Photodynamic therapy -- a light activates a drug that is injected into your body to destroy leaking blood vessels.
    * Special medicines that prevent new blood vessels from forming in the eye are injected into the eye (this is a painless process). 

Low-vision aids (such as special lenses) and therapy can help you use the
vision that you have more effectively, and improve your quality of life.

Close follow-up with your eye doctor is important.

    * For dry AMD, visit your eye doctor once a year for a complete eye exam.
    * For wet AMD, you likely need frequent, perhaps monthly, follow-up visits. 

Early detection of vision changes is important because the sooner you are
treated, the better your outcome. Early detection leads to earlier treatment
and often, a better outcome.

The best way to detect changes is by self-testing at home with the Amsler
grid. Your eye doctor can give you a copy of the grid or you can print one
from the Internet. Test each eye individually while wearing your reading
glasses. If the lines look wavy, call your eye doctor right away for an
appointment.

## Support Groups

These resources may provide more information on macular degeneration:

    * Macular Degeneration Association -- macularhope.org
    * National Eye Institute -- www.nei.nih.gov/learn-about-eye-health/eye-conditions-and-diseases/age-related-macular-degeneration

## Outlook (Prognosis)

AMD does not affect side (peripheral) vision. This means complete vision loss
never occurs. AMD results in the loss of central vision only.

Mild, dry AMD usually does not cause disabling central vision loss.

Wet AMD often leads to significant vision loss.

In general, with AMD you may lose the ability to read, drive a car, and
recognize faces at a distance. But most people with AMD can carry out daily
tasks without much difficulty.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

If you have AMD, your health care provider may recommend that you check your
vision every dayÂ with an Amsler grid. Call your provider immediately if the
linesÂ look wavy. Also call if you notice other changes in your vision.

## Prevention

Although there is no known way to prevent macular degeneration, leading a
healthy lifestyle can reduce your risk of developing AMD:

    * Do not smoke
    * Maintain a healthy diet that is high in fruits and vegetables and low in animal fat
    * Exercise regularly
    * Maintain a healthy weight 

See your eye care professional regularly for dilated eye exams.

## Alternative Names

Age-related macular degeneration (ARMD); AMD;Â Vision loss - AMD

## Images

    * ![Macular degeneration](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19532t.jpg)Macular degeneration
    * ![Retina](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8903t.jpg)Retina

## References

American Academy of Ophthalmology website. Retina/Vitreous Committee, Hoskins
Center for Quality Eye Care. Preferred Practice Pattern Guideline. Age-related
macular degeneration PPP 2019. www.aao.org/preferred-practice-pattern/age-
related-macular-degeneration-ppp. Updated October 2019. Accessed January 24,
2020.

Wenick AS, Bressler NM, Bressler SB. Age-related macular degeneration: non-
neovascular early AMD, intermediate AMD, and geographic atrophy. In: Schachat
AP, Sadda SR, Hinton DR, Wilkinson CP, Wiedemann P, eds. _Ryan's Retina_. 6th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 68.

## Review Date 8/8/2019

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Macular
Degeneration](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MacularDegeneration_thumb.jpg)Macular
Degeneration _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

