Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003846.htm    
                                Description: Fluorescein angiography is an eye test that uses a special dye and camera to look at blood flow in the retina and choroid. These are the two layers in the back of the eye.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Fluorescein angiography

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003846.htm

# Fluorescein angiography

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Fluorescein angiography is an eye test that uses a special dye and camera to
look at blood flow in the retina and choroid. These are the two layers in the
back of the eye.

## How the Test is Performed

You will be given eye drops that make your pupil dilate. You will be asked to
place your chin on a chin rest and your forehead against a support bar to keep
your head still during the test.

The health care provider will take pictures of the inside of your eye. After
the first group of pictures is taken, a dye called fluorescein is injected
into a vein. Most often it is injected at the inside of your elbow. A camera-
like device takes pictures as the dye moves through the blood vessels in the
back of your eye.

A newer method called ultra-widefield fluorescein angiography can provide more
information about certain diseases than regular angiography.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You will need someone to drive you home. Your vision may be blurry for up to
12 hours after the test.

You may be told to stop taking medicines that could affect the test results.
Tell your provider about any allergies, particularly reactions to iodine.

You must sign an informed consent form. You must remove contact lenses before
the test.

Tell the provider if you may be pregnant.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted, some people feel slight pain. Others feel only a
prick or sting. Afterward, there may be some throbbing.

When the dye is injected, you may have mild nausea and a warm feeling in your
body. These symptoms go away quickly most of the time.

The dye will cause your urine to be darker. It may be orange in color for a
day or two after the test.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is done to see if there is proper blood flow in the blood vessels in
the two layers in the back of your eye (the retina and choroid).

It can also be used to diagnose problems in the eye or to determine how well
certain eye treatments are working.

## Normal Results

A normal result means the vessels appear a normal size, there are no new
abnormal vessels, and there are no blockages or leakages.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

If blockage or leakage is present, the pictures will map the location for
possible treatment.

An abnormal value on a fluorescein angiography may be due to:

    * Blood flow (circulatory) problems, such as blockage of the arteries or veins
    * Cancer
    * Diabetic or other retinopathy
    * High blood pressure
    * Inflammation or edema
    * Macular degeneration
    * Microaneurysms -- enlargement of capillaries in the retina
    * Tumors
    * Swelling of the optic disc 

The test may also be done if you have:

    * Retinal detachment
    * Retinitis pigmentosa

## Risks

There is a slight chance of infection any time the skin is broken. Rarely, a
person is overly sensitive to the dye and may experience:

    * Dizziness or faintness
    * Dry mouth or increased salivation
    * Hives
    * Increased heart rate
    * Metallic taste in mouth
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Sneezing 

Serious allergic reactions are rare.

## Considerations

The test results are harder to interpret in people with cataracts.

## Alternative Names

Retinal photography; Eye angiography; Angiography - fluorescein

## Images

    * ![Retinal dye injection](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9329t.jpg)Retinal dye injection

## References

Feinstein E, Olson JL, Mandava N. Camera-based ancillary retinal testing:
autofluorescence, fluorescein, and indocyanine green angiography. In: Yanoff
M, Duker JS, eds. _Ophthalmology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 6.6.

Haug S, Fu AD, Johnson RN, McDonald HR, et al. Fluorescein angiography: basic
principles and interpretation. In: Schachat AP, Sadda SVR, Hinton DR,
Wilkinson CP, Wiedemann P, eds. _Ryan's Retina_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 1.

Karampelas M, Sim DA, Chu C, et al. Quantitative analysis of peripheral
vasculitis, ischemia, and vascular leakage in uveitis using ultra-widefield
fluorescein angiography. _Am J Ophthalmol_. 2015;159(6):1161-1168. PMID:
25709064 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25709064.

## Review Date 8/28/2018

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Diabetic Eye
Problems](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DiabeticEyeProblems_thumb.jpg)Diabetic
Eye Problems _Read more_

![Eye Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EyeDiseases_thumb.jpg)Eye
Diseases _Read more_

![Macular
Degeneration](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MacularDegeneration_thumb.jpg)Macular
Degeneration _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

