Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007629.htm    
                                Description: An intravitreal injection is a shot of medicine into the eye. The inside of the eye is filled with a jelly-like fluid (vitreous). During this procedure, your health care provider injects medicine into    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Intravitreal injection

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007629.htm

# Intravitreal injection

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An intravitreal injection is a shot of medicine into the eye. The inside of
the eye is filled with a jelly-like fluid (vitreous). During this procedure,
your health care provider injects medicine into the vitreous, near the retina
at the back of the eye. The medicine can treat certain eye problems and help
protect your vision. This method is most often used to get a higher level of
medicine to the retina.

## Description

The procedure is done in your provider's office. It takes about 15 to 30
minutes.

    * Drops will be placed in your eyes to widen (dilate) the pupils.
    * You will lie face up in a comfortable position.
    * Your eyes and eyelids will be cleaned.
    * Numbing drops will be placed in your eye.
    * A small device will keep your eyelids open during the procedure.
    * You will be asked to look toward the other eye.
    * Medicine will be injected into your eye with a small needle. You may feel pressure, but not pain.
    * Antibiotic drops may be placed in your eye.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

You may have this procedure if you have:

    * Macular degeneration: An eye disorder that slowly destroys sharp, central vision
    * Macular edema: Swelling or thickening of the macula, the part of your eye that provides sharp, central vision
    * Diabetic retinopathy: A complication of diabetes which can cause new, abnormal blood vessels to grow in the retina, the back part of your eye
    * Uveitis: Swelling and inflammation within the eyeball
    * Retinal vein occlusion: A blockage of the veins that carry blood away from the retina and out of the eye
    * Endophthalmitis: Infection in the inside of the eye

Sometimes, an intravitreal injection of antibiotics and steroids is given as
part of routine cataract surgery. This avoids having to use drops after
surgery.

## Risks

Side effects are rare, and many can be managed. They may include:

    * Increased pressure in the eye
    * Floaters
    * Inflammation
    * Bleeding
    * Scratched cornea
    * Damage to the retina or surrounding nerves or structures
    * Infection
    * Vision loss
    * Loss of the eye (very rare)
    * Side effects from the medicines that are used 

Discuss the risks for specific medicines used in your eye with your provider.

## Before the Procedure

Tell your provider about:

    * Any health problems
    * Medicines you take, including any over-the-counter medicines
    * Any allergies
    * Any bleeding tendencies 

## After the Procedure

Following the procedure:

    * You may feel a few sensations in the eye such as pressure and grittiness, but there should not be pain.
    * There may be a little bleeding on the white of the eye. This is normal and will go away.
    * You may see eye floaters in your vision. They will improve over time.
    * DO NOT rub your eyes for several days.
    * Avoid swimming for at least 3 days.
    * Use eye drop medicine as directed. 

Report any eye pain or discomfort, redness, sensitivity to light, or changes
in your vision to your provider right away.

Schedule a follow-up appointment with your provider as directed.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Your outlook depends mostly on the condition being treated. Your vision may
remain stable or improve after the procedure. You may need more than one
injection.

## Alternative Names

Antibiotic - intravitreal injection; Triamcinolone - intravitreal injection;
Dexamethasone - intravitreal injection; Lucentis - intravitreal injection;
Avastin - intravitreal injection; Bevacizumab - intravitreal injection;
Ranibizumab - intravitreal injection; Anti-VEGF medicines - intravitreal
injection; Macular edema - intravitreal injection; Retinopathy - intravitreal
injection; Retinal vein occlusion - intravitreal injection

## References

American Academy of Ophthalmology website. Age-related macular degeneration
PPP 2019. www.aao.org/preferred-practice-pattern/age-related-macular-
degeneration-ppp. Updated October 2019. Accessed January 13, 2020.

Kim JW, Mansfield NC, Murphree AL. Retinoblastoma. In: Schachat AP, Sadda SVR,
Hinton DR, Wilkinson CP, Wiedemann P, eds. _Ryan's Retina_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 132.

Mitchell P, Wong TY; Diabetic Macular Edema Treatment Guideline Working Group.
Management paradigms for diabetic macular edema. _Am J Ophthalmol_.
2014;157(3):505-513. PMID: 24269850 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24269850.

Rodger DC, Shildkrot YE, Elliott D. Infectious endophthalmitis. In: Yanoff M,
Duker JS, eds. _Ophthalmology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap
7.9.

Shultz RW, Maloney MH, Bakri SJ. Intravitreal injections and medication
implants. In: Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds. _Ophthalmology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 6.13.

## Review Date 9/30/2018

Updated by: Audrey Tai, DO, MS, Assistant Clinical Professor (Voluntary),
University of California - Irvine, Irvine, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team. Editorial update on 01-13-2020.

![Diabetic Eye
Problems](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DiabeticEyeProblems_thumb.jpg)Diabetic
Eye Problems _Read more_

![Macular
Degeneration](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MacularDegeneration_thumb.jpg)Macular
Degeneration _Read more_

![Retinal
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/RetinalDisorders_thumb.jpg)Retinal
Disorders _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

