Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000700.htm    
                                Description: People with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) have a greater risk for depression, stress, and anxiety. Being stressed or depressed can make COPD symptoms worse and make it harder to care for    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

COPD - managing stress and your mood

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000700.htm

# COPD - managing stress and your mood

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

People with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) have a greater risk
for depression, stress, and anxiety. Being stressed or depressed can make COPD
symptoms worse and make it harder to care for yourself.

## Information

When you have COPD, caring for your emotional health is just as important as
taking care of your physical health. Learning how to deal with stress and
anxiety and seeking care for depression can help you manage COPD and feel
better in general.

## COPD and Your Emotions

Having COPD can affect your mood and emotions for several reasons:

    * You cannot do all the things you used to do.
    * You may need to do things much slower than you used to.
    * You may often feel tired.
    * You may have a hard time sleeping.
    * You may feel ashamed or blame yourself for having COPD.
    * You may be more isolated from others because it is harder to get out to do things.
    * Breathing problems can be stressful and scary. 

All of these factors can make you feel stressed, anxious, or depressed.

## How Your Emotions can Affect COPD

Having COPD can change how you feel about yourself. And how you feel about
yourself can affect COPD symptoms and how well you care for yourself.

People with COPD who are depressed may have more COPD flare-ups and may have
to go to the hospital more often. Depression saps your energy and motivation.
When you are depressed, you may be less likely to:

    * Eat well and exercise.
    * Take your medicines as directed.
    * Follow your treatment plan.
    * Get enough rest. Or, you may get too much rest.

Stress is a known COPD trigger. When you feel stressed and anxious, you may
breathe faster, which can make you feel short of breath. When it is harder to
breathe, you feel more anxious, and the cycle continues, leading you to feel
even worse.

## How to Manage Stress and Avoid Depression

There are things you can and should do to protect your emotional health. While
you cannot get rid of all the stress in your life, you can learn how to manage
it. These suggestions may help you relieve stress and stay positive.

    *  **Identify the people, places, and situations that cause stress**. Knowing what causes you stress can help you avoid or manage it.
    *  **Try to avoid things that make you anxious**. For example, DO NOT spend time with people who stress you out. Instead, seek out people who nurture and support you. Go shopping during quieter times when there's less traffic and fewer people around.
    *  **Practice relaxation exercises**. Deep breathing, visualization, letting go of negative thoughts, and muscle relaxation exercises are all simple ways to release tension and reduce stress.
    *  **DO NOT take on too much**. Take care of yourself by letting go and learning to say no. For example, perhaps you typically host 25 people for Thanksgiving dinner. Cut it back to 8. Or better yet, ask someone else to host. If you work, talk with your boss about ways to manage your workload so you do not feel overwhelmed.
    *  **Stay involved**. DO NOT isolate yourself. Make time every week to spend time with friends or attend social events.
    *  **Practice positive daily health habits**. Get up and get dressed every morning. Move your body every day. Exercise is one of the best stress busters and mood boosters around. Eat a healthy diet and get enough sleep every night.
    *  **Talk it out**. Share your feelings with trusted family or friends. Or talk with a clergy member. DO NOT keep things bottled up inside.
    *  **Follow your treatment plan**. When your COPD is well-managed, you will have more energy for the things you enjoy.
    *  **DO NOT delay. Get help for depression**. 

Feeling angry, upset, sad, or anxious at times is understandable. Having COPD
changes your life, and it can be hard to accept a new way of living. However,
depression is more than occasional sadness or frustration. Symptoms of
depression include:

    * Low mood most of the time
    * Frequent irritability
    * Not enjoying your usual activities
    * Trouble sleeping, or sleeping too much
    * A big change in appetite, often with weight gain or loss
    * Increased tiredness and lack of energy
    * Feelings of worthlessness, self-hate, and guilt
    * Trouble concentrating
    * Feeling hopeless or helpless
    * Repeated thoughts of death or suicide 

If you have symptoms of depression that last for 2 weeks or more, call your
doctor. You do not have to live with these feelings. Treatment can help you
feel better.

## When to Call Your Doctor

Call 911, a suicide hot line, or go to the nearest emergency room if you have
thoughts of harming yourself or others.

Call your doctor if:

    * You hear voices that are not there.
    * You cry often for no apparent reason.
    * Your depression has affected your work, school, or family life for longer than 2 weeks.
    * You have 3 or more symptoms of depression.
    * You think one of your current medicines may be making you feel depressed. DO NOT change or stop taking any medicines without talking to your doctor.
    * You think you should cut back on drinking, or a family member or friend has asked you to cut back.
    * You feel guilty about the amount of alcohol you drink, or you drink alcohol first thing in the morning.

You should also call your doctor if your COPD symptoms get worse, despite
following your treatment plan.

## Alternative Names

Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease - emotions; Stress - COPD; Depression -
COPD

## References

Celli BR, Zuwallack RL. Pulmonary rehabilitation. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ,
Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_.
6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 105.

Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD) website. Global
strategy for the diagnosis, management, and prevention of chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease: 2018 report. goldcopd.org/wp-
content/uploads/2017/11/GOLD-2018-v6.0-FINAL-revised-20-Nov_WMS.pdf. Accessed
February 21, 2018.

## Review Date 11/20/2017

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * COPD

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

