Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003853.htm    
                                Description: Pulmonary function tests are a group of tests that measure breathing and how well the lungs are functioning.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pulmonary function tests

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003853.htm

# Pulmonary function tests

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pulmonary function tests are a group of tests that measure breathing and how
well the lungs are functioning.

## How the Test is Performed

Spirometry measures airflow. By measuring how much air you exhale, and how
quickly you exhale, spirometry can evaluate a broad range of lung diseases. In
a spirometry test, while you are sitting, you breathe into a mouthpiece that
is connected to an instrument called a spirometer. The spirometer records the
amount and the rate of air that you breathe in and out over a period of time.
When standing, some numbers might be slightly different.

For some of the test measurements, you can breathe normally and quietly. Other
tests require forced inhalation or exhalation after a deep breath. Sometimes,
you will be asked to inhale a different gas or a medicine to see how it
changes your test results.

Lung volume measurement can be done in two ways:

    * The most accurate way is called body plethysmography. You sit in a clear airtight box that looks like a phone booth. The technologist asks you to breathe in and out of a mouthpiece. Changes in pressure inside the box help determine the lung volume.
    * Lung volume can also be measured when you breathe nitrogen or helium gas through a tube for a certain period of time. The concentration of the gas in a chamber attached to the tube is measured to estimate the lung volume.

To measure diffusion capacity, you breathe a harmless gas, called a tracer
gas, for a very short time, often for only one breath. The concentration of
the gas in the air you breathe out is measured. The difference in the amount
of gas inhaled and exhaled measures how effectively gas travels from the lungs
into the blood. This test allows the health care provider to estimate how well
the lungs move oxygen from the air into the bloodstream.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Do not eat a heavy meal before the test. Do not smoke for 4 to 6 hours before
the test. You will get specific instructions if you need to stop using
bronchodilators or other inhaled medicines. You may have to breathe in
medicine before or during the test.

## How the Test will Feel

Since the test involves some forced breathing and rapid breathing, you may
have some temporary shortness of breath or lightheadedness. You also might
have some coughing. You breathe through a tight-fitting mouthpiece and you
will have nose clips. If you are claustrophobic, the part of the test in the
booth may feel uncomfortable.

Follow instructions for using the mouthpiece of the spirometer. A poor seal
around the mouthpiece may cause results that aren't accurate.

## Why the Test is Performed

Pulmonary function tests are done to:

    * Diagnose certain types of lung disease, such as asthma, bronchitis, and emphysema
    * Find the cause of shortness of breath
    * Measure whether exposure to chemicals at work affects lung function
    * Check lung function before someone has surgery
    * Assess the effect of medicines
    * Measure progress in disease treatment
    * Measure the response to treatment in cardiopulmonary vascular disease

## Normal Results

Normal values are based on your age, height, ethnicity, and gender. Normal
results are expressed as a percentage. A value is usually considered abnormal
if it is approximately less than 80% of your predicted value.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories, based on
slightly different ways to determine normal values. Talk to your provider
about the meaning of your specific test results.

Different measurements that may be found on your report afterÂ pulmonary
function tests include:

    * Diffusion capacity to carbon monoxide (DLCO)
    * Expiratory reserve volume (ERV)
    * Forced vital capacity (FVC)
    * Forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1)
    * Forced expiratory flow 25% to 75% (FEF25-75)
    * Functional residual capacity (FRC)
    * Maximum voluntary ventilation (MVV)
    * Residual volume (RV)
    * Peak expiratory flow (PEF)
    * Slow vital capacity (SVC)
    * Total lung capacity (TLC)

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results usually mean that you may have chest or lung disease.

Some lung diseases (such as emphysema, asthma, chronic bronchitis, and
infections) can make the lungs contain too much air andÂ take longer to empty.
These lung diseases are called obstructive lung disorders.

Other lung diseases make the lungs scarred and smaller so that they contain
too little air and are poor at transferring oxygen into the blood. Examples of
these types of illnesses include:

    * Extreme overweight
    * Pulmonary fibrosis (scarring or thickening of the lung tissue)
    * Sarcoidosis and scleroderma

Muscular weakness can also cause abnormal test results, even if the lungs are
normal, that is similar to the diseases that cause smaller lungs.

## Risks

There is a small risk of collapsed lung (pneumothorax) in people with a
certain type of lung disease. The test should not be given to a person who has
experienced a recent heart attack, has certain other types of heart disease,
or has had a recent collapsed lung.

## Alternative Names

PFTs; Spirometry; Spirogram; Lung function tests

## Images

    * ![Spirometry](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1142t.jpg)Spirometry
    * ![Match test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9594t.jpg)Match test

## References

Gold WM, Koth LL. Pulmonary function testing. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst
JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 25.

Putnam JB. Lung, chest wall, pleura, and mediastinum. In: Townsend CM Jr,
Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery: The
Biological Basis of Modern Surgical Practice_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 57.

Scanlon PD. Respiratory function: mechanisms and testing. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 85.

## Review Date 10/23/2017

Updated by: Denis Hadjiliadis, MD, MHS, Paul F. Harron, Jr. Associate
Professor of Medicine, Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care, Perelman School
of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Asthma](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Asthma2_thumb.jpg)Asthma _Read more_

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Breathing_thumb.jpg)Breathing Problems
_Read more_

![COPD](https://medlineplus.gov/images/COPD2_thumb.jpg)COPD _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

