Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/blood-oxygen-level/    
                                Description: A blood oxygen level test measures the amount of oxygen and carbon dioxide in the blood. It also checks your blood&#39;s acid-base balance. Abnormal results can mean there&#39;s a problem with your lungs or kidneys. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Blood Oxygen Level

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/blood-oxygen-level/

# Blood Oxygen Level

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a blood oxygen level test?

A blood oxygen level test, also known as a blood gas analysis, measures the
amount of oxygen and carbon dioxide in the blood. When you breathe, your lungs
take in (inhale) oxygen and breathe out (exhale) carbon dioxide. If there is
an imbalance in the oxygen and carbon dioxide levels in your blood, it can
mean your lungs aren't working well.

A blood oxygen level test also checks the balance of acids and bases, known as
pH balance, in the blood. Too much or too little acid in the blood can mean
there is a problem with your lungs or kidneys.

Other names: blood gas test, arterial blood gases, ABG, blood gas analysis,
oxygen saturation test

## What is it used for?

A blood oxygen level test is used to check how well your lungs are working and
measure the acid-base balance in your blood. The test usually includes the
following measurements:

    * **Oxygen content (O2CT).** This measures the amount of oxygen in the blood.
    * **Oxygen saturation (O2Sat).** This measures the amount of hemoglobin in your blood. Hemoglobin is a protein in your red blood cells that carries oxygen from your lungs to the rest of your body.
    * **Partial pressure of oxygen (PaO2).** This measures the pressure of oxygen dissolved in the blood. It helps show how well oxygen moves from your lungs to your bloodstream.
    * **Partial pressure of carbon dioxide (PaCO2).** This measures the amount of carbon dioxide in the blood.
    * **pH.** This measures the balance of acids and bases in the blood.

## Why do I need a blood oxygen level test?

There are many reasons this test is ordered. You may need a blood oxygen level
test if you:

    * Have trouble breathing
    * Have frequent periods of nausea and/or vomiting
    * Are being treated for a lung disease, such as asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), or cystic fibrosis. The test can help to see if treatment is working.
    * Recently injured your head or neck, which can affect your breathing
    * Had a drug overdose
    * Are receiving oxygen therapy while in the hospital. The test can help make sure you are getting the right amount of oxygen.
    * Have carbon monoxide poisoning
    * Have a smoke inhalation injury

A newborn baby may also need this test if he or she is having trouble
breathing.

## What happens during a blood oxygen level test?

Most blood tests take a sample from a vein. For this test, a health care
provider will take a sample of blood from an artery. That's because blood from
an artery has higher oxygen levels than blood from a vein. The sample is
usually taken from an artery inside the wrist. This is called the radial
artery. Sometimes the sample is taken from an artery in the elbow or the
groin. If a newborn is being tested, the sample may be taken from the baby's
heel or umbilical cord.

During the procedure, your provider will insert a needle with a syringe into
the artery. You may feel a sharp pain as the needle goes into the artery.
Getting a blood sample from an artery is usually more painful than getting
blood from a vein, a more common type of blood test procedure.

Once the syringe is filled with blood, your provider will put a bandage over
the puncture site. After the procedure, you or a provider will need to apply
firm pressure to the site for 5â10 minutes, or even longer if you are taking
a blood-thinning medicine.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

If your blood sample is taken from your wrist, your health care provider may
perform a circulation test called an Allen test before taking the sample. In
an Allen test, your provider will apply pressure to the arteries in your wrist
for several seconds.

If you are on oxygen therapy, your oxygen may be turned off for about 20
minutes before the test. This is called a room air test. This won't be done if
you are unable breathe without the oxygen.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having a blood oxygen level test. You may have
some bleeding, bruising, or soreness at the spot where the needle was put in.
Though problems are rare, you should avoid lifting heavy objects for 24 hours
after the test.

## What do the results mean?

If your blood oxygen level results are not normal, it may mean you:

    * Are not taking in enough oxygen
    * Are not getting rid of enough carbon dioxide
    * Have an imbalance in your acid-base levels

These conditions can be signs of a lung or kidney disease. The test can't
diagnose specific diseases, but if your results are not normal, your health
care provider will order more tests to confirm or rule out a diagnosis. If you
have questions about your results, talk to your health care provider.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about blood oxygen level tests?

Another type of test, called pulse oximetry, also checks blood oxygen levels.
This test doesn't use a needle or require a blood sample. In pulse oximetry, a
small clip-like device with a special sensor is attached to your fingertip,
toe, or earlobe. Since the device measures oxygen "peripherally"(in an outer
area), the results are given as peripheral oxygen saturation, also known as
SpO2.

## References

    1. Allina Health [Internet]. Minneapolis: Allina Health; c2018. Blood Gases [cited 2018 Apr 10]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://wellness.allinahealth.org/library/content/1/3855
    2. American Lung Association [Internet]. Chicago: American Lung Association; c2018. How Lungs Work [cited 2018 Apr 10]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: http://www.lung.org/lung-health-and-diseases/how-lungs-work
    3. Hinkle J, Cheever K. Brunner & Suddarth's Handbook of Laboratory and Diagnostic Tests. 2nd Ed, Kindle. Philadelphia: Wolters Kluwer Health, Lippincott Williams & Wilkins; c2014. Arterial Blood Gas Analysis (ABG) Analysis; 59 p.
    4. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. Blood Gases [updated 2018 Apr 9; cited 2018 Apr 10]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/blood-gases
    5. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co. Inc.; c2018. Arterial Blood Gas (ABG) Analysis [cited 2018 Apr 10]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.merckmanuals.com/home/lung-and-airway-disorders/diagnosis-of-lung-disorders/arterial-blood-gas-abg-analysis
    6. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; How the Lungs Work [cited 2018 Apr 10]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/how-lungs-work
    7. Nurse.org [Internet]. Bellevue (WA): Nurse.org; Know Your ABGsâArterial Blood Gases Explained; 2017 Oct 26 [cited 2018 Apr 10]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://nurse.org/articles/arterial-blood-gas-test
    8. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2018. Health Encyclopedia: Arterial Blood Gas (ABG) [cited 2018 Apr 10]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?ContentTypeID=167&ContentID;=arterial_blood_gas
    9. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Arterial Blood Gases: How It Feels [updated 2017 Mar 25; cited 2018 Apr 10]; [about 6 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/arterial-blood-gases/hw2343.html#hw2395
    10. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Arterial Blood Gases: How It Is Done [updated 2017 Mar 25; cited 2018 Apr 10]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/arterial-blood-gases/hw2343.html#hw2384
    11. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Arterial Blood Gases: Risks [updated 2017 Mar 25; cited 2018 Apr 10]; [about 7 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/arterial-blood-gases/hw2343.html#hw2397
    12. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Arterial Blood Gases: Test Overview [updated 2017 Mar 25; cited 2018 Apr 10]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/arterial-blood-gases/hw2343.html#hw2346
    13. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Arterial Blood Gases: Why It Is Done [updated 2017 Mar 25; cited 2018 Apr 10]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/arterial-blood-gases/hw2343.html#hw2374
    14. World Health Organization [Internet]. Geneva: World Health Organization; c2018. Pulse Oximetry Training Manual- [cited 2018 Apr 10]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: http://www.who.int/patientsafety/safesurgery/pulse_oximetry/who_ps_pulse_oxymetry_training_manual_en.pdf

## Related Health Topics

    * Breathing Problems
    * COPD
    * Kidney Diseases
    * Lung Diseases
    * Oxygen Therapy

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Carbon Dioxide (CO2) in Blood
    * Complete Blood Count (CBC)
    * Hemoglobin Test
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results
    * RDW (Red Cell Distribution Width)

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 24 February 2020 Page last reviewed: 13 August 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

