Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000042.htm    
                                Description: Metered-dose inhalers (MDIs) usually have 3 parts:    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

How to use an inhaler - with spacer

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000042.htm

# How to use an inhaler - with spacer

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Metered-dose inhalers (MDIs) usually have 3 parts:

    * A mouthpiece
    * A cap that goes over the mouthpiece
    * A canister full of medicine 

If you use your inhaler the wrong way, less medicine gets to your lungs. A
spacer device will help. The spacer connects to the mouthpiece. The inhaled
medicine goes into the spacer tube first. Then you take 2 deep breaths to get
the medicine into your lungs. Using a spacer wastes a lot less medicine than
spraying the medicine into your mouth.

Spacers come in different shapes and sizes. Ask your doctor which spacer is
best for you or your child. Almost all children can use a spacer. You do not
need a spacer for dry powder inhalers.

The steps below tell you how to take your medicine with a spacer.

## Getting Ready

    * Take the cap off the inhaler and spacer.
    * Shake the inhaler hard.
    * Attach the spacer to the inhaler.
    * If you have not used the inhaler in a while, you may need to prime it. See the instructions that came with your inhaler for how to do this.
    * Breathe out gently to empty your lungs.

## Breathe in Slowly

    * Put the spacer between your teeth and close your lips tightly around it.
    * Keep your chin up.
    * Start breathing in slowly through your mouth.
    * Spray 1 puff into the spacer by pressing down on the inhaler.
    * Keep breathing in slowly. Breathe as deeply as you can. 

## Hold Your Breath

    * Take the spacer out of your mouth.
    * Hold your breath as you count to 10, if you can.
    * Pucker your lips and slowly breathe out through your mouth.
    * After using your inhaler, rinse your mouth with water, gargle, and spit. This helps reduce side effects from your medicine. 

## Keep Your Inhaler Clean

Look at the hole where the medicine sprays out of your inhaler. If you see
powder in or around the hole, clean your inhaler. First, remove the metal
canister from the L-shaped plastic mouthpiece. Rinse only the mouthpiece and
cap in warm water. Let them air dry overnight. In the morning, put the
canister back inside. Put the cap on. DO NOT rinse any other parts.

## Replacing Your Inhaler

Most inhalers come with counters on the canister. Keep an eye on the counter
and replace the inhaler before you run out of medicine.

DO NOT put your canister in water to see if it is empty. This does not work.

## Storing Your Inhaler

Store your inhaler at room temperature. It may not work well if it is too
cold. The medicine in the canister is under pressure. So make sure not to get
it too hot or puncture it.

## Alternative Names

Metered-dose inhaler (MDI) administration - with spacer; Asthma - inhaler with
spacer; Reactive airway disease - inhaler with spacer; Bronchial asthma -
inhaler with spacer

## References

Laube BL, Dolovich MB. Aerosols and aerosol drug delivery systems. In:
Adkinson NF Jr, Bochner BS, Burks AW, et al, eds. _Middleton's Allergy
Principles and Practice_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2014:chap 66.

National Asthma Education and Prevention Program website. How to use a
metered-dose inhaler.
www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health/public/lung/asthma/asthma_tipsheets.pdf. Updated
March 2013. Accessed February 28, 2018.

## Read More

    * Asthma
    * Asthma and allergy resources
    * Asthma in children
    * Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)

## Patient Instructions

    * Asthma - child - discharge
    * Asthma - control drugs
    * Asthma in adults - what to ask the doctor
    * Asthma - quick-relief drugs 
    * COPD - control drugs
    * COPD - quick-relief drugs
    * COPD - what to ask your doctor 
    * Exercise-induced asthma
    * Exercising and asthma at school 
    * Make peak flow a habit
    * Signs of an asthma attack
    * Stay away from asthma triggers

## Review Date 2/18/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Asthma
    * Asthma in Children
    * COPD

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

