Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000046.htm    
                                Description: Checking your peak flow is one of the best ways to control your asthma and to keep it from getting worse.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Make peak flow a habit

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000046.htm

# Make peak flow a habit

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Checking your peak flow is one of the best ways to control your asthma and to
keep it from getting worse.

Asthma attacks do not usually come on without warning. Most times, they build
slowly. Checking your peak flow can tell you if an attack is coming, sometimes
before you have any symptoms.

## What is Peak Flow?

Peak flow can tell you how well you blow air out of your lungs. If your
airways are narrowed and blocked due to asthma, your peak flow values drop.

You can check your peak flow at home with a small, plastic meter. Some meters
have tabs on the side that you can adjust to match your action plan zones
(green, yellow, red). If your meter does not have these, you can mark them
with colored tape or a marker.

## Write Down Your Peak Flow Numbers

Write down your peak flow scores (numbers) on a chart or diary. Many brands of
peak flow meters come with charts. Make a copy of your chart to bring with you
when you see your health care provider.

Next to your peak flow number also write:

    1. Any signs or symptoms you felt.
    2. Steps you took if you had symptoms or your peak flow dropped.
    3. Changes in your asthma drugs.
    4. Any asthma triggers you were exposed to. 

## Use Your Peak Flow Meter Every Day

Once you know your personal best, take your peak flow at:

    * Every morning when you wake up, before you take medicine. Make this part of your daily morning routine.
    * When you have asthma symptoms or an attack.
    * Again after you take medicine for the attack. This can tell you how bad your asthma attack is and if your medicine is working.
    * Any other time your provider tells you to. 

Check to see which zone your peak flow number is in. Do what your provider
told you to do when you are in that zone. This information should be in your
action plan.

Do your peak flow 3 times and record the best value every time you check it.

If you use more than one peak flow meter (such as one at home and another one
at school or work), be sure that all of them are the same brand.

## Alternative Names

Asthma - make peak flow a habit; Reactive airway disease - peak flow;
Bronchial asthma - peak flow

## References

Bergstrom J, Kurth M, Hieman BE, et al. Institute for Clinical Systems
Improvement website. Health Care Guideline: Diagnosis and Management of
Asthma. 11th ed. www.icsi.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/01/Asthma.pdf. Updated
December 2016. Accessed February 28, 2018.

Durrani SR, Busse WW. Management of asthma in adolescents and adults. In:
Adkinson NF Jr, Bochner BS, Burks AW, et al, eds. _Middleton's Allergy
Principles and Practice_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2014:chap 55.

National Asthma Education and Prevention Program website. How to use a peak
flow meter. How to use a metered-dose inhaler.
www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health/public/lung/asthma/asthma_tipsheets.pdf. Updated
March 2013. Accessed February 28, 2018.

## Read More

    * Asthma
    * Asthma and allergy resources
    * Asthma in children
    * Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)

## Patient Instructions

    * Asthma and school
    * Asthma - child - discharge
    * Asthma - control drugs
    * Asthma in adults - what to ask the doctor
    * Asthma in children - what to ask your doctor
    * Asthma - quick-relief drugs 
    * Exercise-induced asthma
    * Exercising and asthma at school 
    * How to use a nebulizer
    * How to use an inhaler - no spacer
    * How to use an inhaler - with spacer
    * How to use your peak flow meter
    * Signs of an asthma attack
    * Stay away from asthma triggers

## Review Date 2/18/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. 02-25-19: Editorial update.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Asthma
    * Asthma in Children
    * COPD

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

