Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000215.htm    
                                Description: Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) damages your lungs. This can make it hard for you to get enough oxygen and clear carbon dioxide from your lungs. While there is no cure for COPD, you can do    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

COPD - what to ask your doctor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000215.htm

# COPD - what to ask your doctor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) damages your lungs. This can make
it hard for you to get enough oxygen and clear carbon dioxide from your lungs.
While there is no cure for COPD, you can do many things to control your
symptoms and make your life better.

Below are some questions you may want to ask your health care provider to help
you take care of your lungs.

## Questions

What will make my COPD worse?

    * How can I prevent things that can make my COPD worse?
    * How can I prevent getting a lung infection?
    * How can I get help quitting smoking?
    * Will fumes, dust, or having pets make my COPD worse? 

What are some signs that my breathing is getting worse and I should call the
provider? What should I do when I feel I am not breathing well enough?

Am I taking my COPD medicines the right way?

    * What medicines should I be taking every day (called controller drugs)? What should I do if I miss a day or a dose?
    * Which medicines should I take when I am short of breath (called quick-relief or rescue drugs)? Is it OK to use these drugs every day?
    * What are the side effects of my medicines? For what side effects should I call the provider?
    * Am I using my inhaler the right way? Should I be using a spacer? How will I know when my inhalers are getting empty?
    * When should I use my nebulizer and when should I use my inhaler? 

What shots or vaccinations do I need?

Are there changes in my diet that will help my COPD?

What do I need to do when I am planning to travel?

    * Will I need oxygen on the airplane? How about at the airport?
    * What medicines should I bring?
    * Who should I call if I get worse? 

What are some exercises I can do to keep my muscles strong, even if I cannot
walk around very much?

Should I consider pulmonary rehabilitation?

How can I save some of my energy around the house?

## Alternative Names

What to ask your doctor about COPD; Emphysema - what to ask your doctor;
Chronic bronchitis - what to ask your doctor; Chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease - what to ask your doctor

## References

Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD) website. Global
strategy for the diagnosis, management, and prevention of chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease: 2018 report. goldcopd.org/wp-
content/uploads/2017/11/GOLD-2018-v6.0-FINAL-revised-20-Nov_WMS.pdf. Accessed
November 20, 2018.

Macnee W, Vestbo J, Agusti A. COPD: pathogenesis and natural history. In:
Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of
Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap
43.

## Read More

    * Acute bronchitis
    * Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)

## Patient Instructions

    * Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease - adults - discharge
    * COPD - control drugs
    * COPD - quick-relief drugs
    * How to use an inhaler - no spacer
    * How to use an inhaler - with spacer
    * How to use your peak flow meter

## Review Date 11/3/2018

Updated by: Denis Hadjiliadis, MD, MHS, Paul F. Harron Jr. Associate Professor
of Medicine, Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care, Perelman School of
Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. Also reviewed by David
Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * COPD

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

