Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000041.htm    
                                Description: Using a metered-dose inhaler (MDI) seems simple. But many people do not use them the right way. If you use your MDI the wrong way, less medicine gets to your lungs and most remains in the back of your    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

How to use an inhaler - no spacer

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000041.htm

# How to use an inhaler - no spacer

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Using a metered-dose inhaler (MDI) seems simple. But many people do not use
them the right way. If you use your MDI the wrong way, less medicine gets to
your lungs and most remains in the back of your mouth. If you have a spacer,
use it. It helps get more medicine into your airways.

( _The instructions below are not for dry powder inhalers. They have different
instructions_.)

## Getting Ready

    * Shake the inhaler hard before each use.
    * Take the cap off.
    * Look inside the mouthpiece and make sure there is nothing in it.
    * If you have not used the inhaler in a while, you may need to prime it. See the instructions that came with your inhaler for when and how to do this.
    * Breathe out all the way. Try to push out as much air as you can.
    * Hold the inhaler with the mouthpiece down. Place your lips around the mouthpiece so that you form a tight seal. 

## Breathe in Slowly

    * As you start to slowly breathe in through your mouth, press down on the inhaler one time.
    * Keep breathing in slowly, as deeply as you can. 

## Hold Your Breath

    * If you can, hold your breath as you slowly count to 10. This lets the medicine reach deep into your lungs. Breathe out slowly through your mouth.
    * If you are using inhaled, quick-relief medicine (beta-agonists), wait about 1 minute before you take your next puff. You do not need to wait a minute between puffs for other medicines.
    * Put the cap back on the mouthpiece and make sure it is firmly closed.
    * After using your inhaler, rinse your mouth with water, gargle, and spit. Do not swallow the water. This helps reduce side effects from your medicine. 

## Keep Your Inhaler Clean

Look at the hole where the medicine sprays out of your inhaler. If you see
powder in or around the hole, clean your inhaler.

    1. Remove the metal canister from the L-shaped plastic mouthpiece.
    2. Rinse only the mouthpiece and cap in warm water.
    3. Let them air dry overnight.
    4. In the morning, put the canister back inside. Put the cap on.
    5. DO NOT rinse any other parts. 

## Replacing Your Inhaler

Most inhalers come with counters on the canister. Keep an eye on the counter
and replace the inhaler before you run out of medicine.

DO NOT put your canister in water to see if it is empty. This does not work.

Bring your inhaler to your clinic appointments. Your doctor can make sure you
are using it the right way.

## Storing Your Inhaler

Store your inhaler at room temperature. It may not work well if it is too
cold. The medicine in the canister is under pressure. So make sure you do not
get it too hot or puncture it.

## Alternative Names

Metered-dose inhaler (MDI) administration - no spacer; Bronchial nebulizer;
Wheezing - nebulizer; Reactive airway - nebulizer; COPD - nebulizer; Chronic
bronchitis - nebulizer; Emphysema - nebulizer

## Images

    * ![Inhaler medication administration](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23233t.jpg)Inhaler medication administration

## References

Laube BL, Dolovich MB. Aerosols and aerosol drug delivery systems. In:
Adkinson NF Jr, Bochner BS, Burks AW, et al, eds. _Middleton's Allergy
Principles and Practice_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2014:chap 66.

National Asthma Education and Prevention Program website. How to use a
metered-dose inhaler.
www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health/public/lung/asthma/asthma_tipsheets.pdf. Updated
March 2013. Accessed February 28, 2018.

## Read More

    * Asthma
    * Asthma and allergy resources
    * Asthma in children
    * Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)

## Patient Instructions

    * Asthma - child - discharge
    * Asthma - control drugs
    * Asthma in adults - what to ask the doctor
    * Asthma - quick-relief drugs 
    * COPD - control drugs
    * COPD - quick-relief drugs
    * COPD - what to ask your doctor 
    * Exercise-induced asthma
    * Exercising and asthma at school 
    * Make peak flow a habit
    * Signs of an asthma attack
    * Stay away from asthma triggers

## Review Date 2/18/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. 01-22-19: Editorial update.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Asthma
    * Asthma in Children
    * COPD

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

