Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000009.htm    
                                Description: You were in the hospital to treat breathing problems that are caused by chronic obstructive pulmonary disease COPD. COPD damages your lungs. This makes it hard to breathe and get enough oxygen.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease - adults - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000009.htm

# Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease - adults - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You were in the hospital to treat breathing problems that are caused by
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease COPD. COPD damages your lungs. This
makes it hard to breathe and get enough oxygen.

After you go home, follow instructions on taking care of yourself. Use the
information below as a reminder.

## When You're in the Hospital

In the hospital you received oxygen to help you breathe better. You may also
need to use oxygen at home. Your doctor may have changed some of your COPD
medicines during your hospital stay.

## Keep Active

To build strength:

    * Walk until it is a little hard to breathe.
    * Slowly increase how far you walk.
    * Try not to talk when you walk.
    * Ask your health care provider how far to walk.
    * Ride a stationary bike. Ask your provider how long and how hard to ride. 

Build your strength even when you are sitting.

    * Use small weights or an exercise band to strengthen your arms and shoulders.
    * Stand up and sit down several times.
    * Hold your legs straight out in front of you, then put them down. Repeat this movement several times. 

Ask your provider whether you need to use oxygen during your activities, and
if so, how much. You may be told to keep your oxygen above 90%. You can
measure this with an oximeter. This is a small device that measures your
body's oxygen level.

Talk to your provider about whether you should do an exercise and conditioning
program such as pulmonary rehabilitation.

## Self-care

Know how and when to take your COPD drugs.

    * Take your quick-relief inhaler when you feel short of breath and need help fast.
    * Take your long-term drugs every day.

Eat smaller meals more often, such as 6 smaller meals a day. It might be
easier to breathe when your stomach is not full. DO NOT drink a lot of liquid
before eating, or with your meals.

Ask your provider what foods to eat to get more energy.

Keep your lungs from becoming more damaged.

    * If you smoke, now is the time to quit.
    * Stay away from smokers when you are out, and do not allow smoking in your home.
    * Stay away from strong odors and fumes.
    * Do breathing exercises. 

Talk to your provider if you feel depressed or anxious.

## Stay Away From Infections

Having COPD makes it easier for you to get infections. Get a flu shot every
year. Ask your provider if you should get a pneumococcal (pneumonia) vaccine.

Wash your hands often. Always wash after you go to the bathroom and when you
are around people who are sick.

Stay away from crowds. Ask visitors who have colds to wear masks or to visit
when they're all better.

## Save Your Energy at Home

Place items you use often in spots where you do not have to reach or bend over
to get them.

Use a cart with wheels to move things around the house and kitchen. Use an
electric can opener, dishwasher, and other things that will make your chores
easier to do. Use cooking tools (knives, peelers, and pans) that are not
heavy.

To save energy:

    * Use slow, steady motions when you are doing things.
    * Sit down if you can when you are cooking, eating, dressing, and bathing.
    * Get help for harder tasks.
    * Do not try to do too much in one day.
    * Keep the phone with you or near you.
    * After bathing, wrap yourself in a towel rather than drying off.
    * Try to reduce stress in your life.

## Going Home With Oxygen

Never change how much oxygen is flowing in your oxygen setup without asking
your provider.

Always have a back-up supply of oxygen in the home or with you when you go
out. Keep the phone number of your oxygen supplier with you at all times.
Learn how to use oxygen safely at home.

## Follow-up

Your hospital provider may ask you to make a follow-up visit with:

    * Your primary care doctor
    * A respiratory therapist, who can teach you breathing exercises and how to use your oxygen
    * Your lung doctor (pulmonologist)
    * Someone who can help you stop smoking, if you smoke
    * A physical therapist, if you join a pulmonary rehabilitation program 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your doctor if your breathing is:

    * Getting harder
    * Faster than before
    * Shallow, and you cannot get a deep breath 

Also call your doctor if:

    * You need to lean forward when sitting in order to breathe easily
    * You are using muscles around your ribs to help you breathe
    * You are having headaches more often
    * You feel sleepy or confused
    * You have a fever
    * You are coughing up dark mucus
    * Your fingertips or the skin around your fingernails are blue

## Alternative Names

COPD - adults - discharge; Chronic obstructive airways disease - adults -
discharge; Chronic obstructive lung disease - adults - discharge; Chronic
bronchitis - adults - discharge; Emphysema - adults - discharge; Bronchitis -
chronic - adults - discharge; Chronic respiratory failure - adults - discharge

## References

Anderson B, Brown H, Bruhl E, et al. Institute for Clinical Systems
Improvement website. Health Care Guideline: Diagnosis and Management of
Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD). 10th edition. www.icsi.org/wp-
content/uploads/2019/01/COPD.pdf. Updated January 2016. Accessed April 9,
2018.

Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD) website. Global
strategy for the diagnosis, management, and prevention of chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease: 2018 report. goldcopd.org/wp-
content/uploads/2017/11/GOLD-2018-v6.0-FINAL-revised-20-Nov_WMS.pdf. Accessed
April 9, 2018.

Han MK, Lazarus SC. COPD: clinical diagnosis and management. In: Broaddus VC,
Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory
Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 44.

## Read More

    * Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)
    * Cor pulmonale
    * Heart failure - overview
    * Lung disease
    * Tips on how to quit smoking

## Patient Instructions

    * COPD - control drugs
    * COPD - quick-relief drugs
    * COPD - what to ask your doctor 
    * How to breathe when you are short of breath
    * How to use your peak flow meter
    * Oxygen safety
    * Traveling with breathing problems
    * Using oxygen at home
    * Using oxygen at home - what to ask your doctor 

## Review Date 2/18/2018

Updated by: Denis Hadjiliadis, MD, MHS, Paul F. Harron Jr. Associate Professor
of Medicine, Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care, Perelman School of
Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. Also reviewed by David
Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team. 02-25-19: Editorial update.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * COPD

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

