Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000051.htm    
                                Description: Postural drainage is one way to help treat breathing problems due to swelling and too much mucus in the airways of the lungs.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Postural drainage

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000051.htm

# Postural drainage

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Postural drainage is one way to help treat breathing problems due to swelling
and too much mucus in the airways of the lungs.

Follow your health care provider's instructions on how to do postural drainage
at home. Use the information below as a reminder.

## What to Expect at Home

With postural drainage, you get into a position that helps drain fluid out of
the lungs. It may help:

    * Treat or prevent an infection
    * Make breathing easier
    * Prevent more problems with the lungs 

A respiratory therapist, nurse, or doctor will show you the best position for
postural drainage.

## How to Do Postural Drainage

The best time to do postural drainage is either before a meal or an hour and a
half after a meal, when your stomach is emptiest.

Use one of the following positions:

    * Sitting
    * Lying on your back, stomach, or side
    * Sitting or lying with your head flat, up, or down

Stay in the position for as long as your provider instructed (at least 5
minutes). Wear comfortable clothes and use pillows to get as comfortable as
possible. Repeat the position as often as instructed.

Breathe in slowly through your nose, and then out through your mouth.
Breathing out should take about twice as long as breathing in.

## Percussion or Vibration

Your doctor may also recommend doing percussion or vibration.

Percussion helps break up thick fluids in the lungs. Either you or someone
else claps a hand on your ribs while you are lying down. You can do this with
or without clothing on your chest:

    * Form a cup shape with your hand and wrist.
    * Clap your hand and wrist against your chest (or have someone clap your back, if your doctor tells you to).
    * You should hear a hollow or popping sound, not a slapping sound.
    * DO NOT clap so hard that it hurts. 

Vibration is like percussion, but with a flat hand that gently shakes your
ribs.

    * Take a deep breath, then blow out hard.
    * With a flat hand, gently shake your ribs. 

Your provider will show you how to do this the right way.

Do percussion or vibration for 5 to 7 minutes in each area of the chest. Do
this on all of the areas of your chest or back that your doctor tells you to.
When you finish, take a deep breath and cough. This helps bring up any phlegm,
which you can then spit out.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your doctor if you have:

    * Indigestion
    * Vomiting
    * Pain
    * Severe discomfort
    * Difficulty breathing

## Alternative Names

Chest physical therapy; CPT; COPD - postural drainage; Cystic fibrosis -
postural drainage; Bronchopulmonary dysplasia - postural drainage

## Images

    * ![Percussion](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22871t.jpg)Percussion

## References

Celli BR, ZuWallack RL. Pulmonary rehabilitation. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ,
Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_.
6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 105.

Cystic Fibrosis Foundation website. An introduction to postural drainage and
percussion. www.cff.org/PDF-Archive/Introduction-to-Postural-Drainage-and-
Pecussion. Updated 2012. Accessed June 18, 2018.

## Read More

    * Bronchiolitis
    * Cystic fibrosis
    * Lung surgery

## Patient Instructions

    * Bronchiolitis - discharge

## Review Date 5/20/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Acute Bronchitis
    * Bronchial Disorders
    * COPD
    * Cystic Fibrosis
    * Pulmonary Rehabilitation

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

