Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000026.htm    
                                Description: Quick-relief medicines for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) work quickly to help you breathe better. You take them when you are coughing, wheezing, or having trouble breathing, such as during    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

COPD - quick-relief drugs

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000026.htm

# COPD - quick-relief drugs

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Quick-relief medicines for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) work
quickly to help you breathe better. You take them when you are coughing,
wheezing, or having trouble breathing, such as during a flare-up. For this
reason, they are also called rescue drugs.

The medical name of these drugs is bronchodilators, meaning medicines that
open the airways (bronchi). They relax the muscles of your airways and open
them up for easier breathing. You and your doctor can make a plan for the
quick-relief drugs that work for you. This plan will include when you should
take your medicine and how much you should take.

Follow instructions on how to use your medicines the right way.

Make sure you get your medicine refilled before you run out.

## Quick-relief Beta-agonist Inhalers

Quick-relief beta-agonists help you breathe better by relaxing the muscles of
your airways. They are short-acting, which means they stay in your system only
for a short time.

Some people take them just before exercising. Ask your doctor if you should do
this.

If you need to use these drugs more than 3 times a week, or if you use more
than one canister a month, your COPD probably is not under control. You should
call your doctor.

## Kinds of Quick-relief Beta-agonists

Quick-relief beta-agonists inhalers include:

    * Albuterol (ProAir HFA; Proventil HFA; Ventolin HFA)
    * Levalbuterol (Xopenex HFA)
    * Albuterol and ipratropium (Combivent)

Most of the time, these medicines are used as metered dose inhalers (MDI) with
a spacer. Sometimes, especially if you have a flare-up, they are used with a
nebulizer.

Side effects might include:

    * Anxiety.
    * Tremor.
    * Restlessness.
    * Headache.
    * Fast or irregular heartbeats. Call your doctor right away if you have this side effect.

Some of these medicines also exist in pills, but the side effects are a lot
more significant, so they are very rarely used that way.

## Oral Steroids

Oral steroids (also called corticosteroids) are medicines you take by mouth,
as pills, capsules, or liquids. They are not quick-relief medicines, but are
often given for 7 to 14 days when your symptoms flare-up. Sometimes you might
have to take them for longer.

Oral steroids include:

    * Methylprednisolone
    * Prednisone
    * Prednisolone 

## Alternative Names

COPD - quick-relief drugs; Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease - control
drugs; Chronic obstructive airways disease - quick-relief drugs; Chronic
obstructive lung disease - quick-relief drugs; Chronic bronchitis - quick-
relief drugs; Emphysema - quick-relief drugs; Bronchitis - chronic - quick-
relief drugs; Chronic respiratory failure - quick-relief drugs;
Bronchodilators - COPD - quick-relief drugs; COPD - short-acting beta agonist
inhaler

## References

Anderson B, Brown H, Bruhl E, et al. Institute for Clinical Systems
Improvement website. Health Care Guideline: Diagnosis and Management of
Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD). 10th edition. www.icsi.org/wp-
content/uploads/2019/01/COPD.pdf. Updated January 2016. Accessed February 28,
2018.

Han MK, Lazarus SC. COPD: clinical diagnosis and management. In: Broaddus VC,
Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory
Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 44.

Rabe KF, Watz H. Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. _Lancet_.
2017;389(10082):1931-1940. PMID: 28513453
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28513453.

Vogelmeier CF, Criner GJ, Martinez FJ, et al. Global strategy for the
diagnosis, management and prevention of chronic obstructive lung disease 2017
report: GOLD Executive Summary. _Respirology_. 2017;22(3):575-601. PMID:
28150362 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28150362.

## Read More

    * Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)
    * Lung disease

## Patient Instructions

    * Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease - adults - discharge
    * COPD - what to ask your doctor 
    * Eating extra calories when sick - adults
    * How to breathe when you are short of breath
    * How to use an inhaler - no spacer
    * How to use an inhaler - with spacer
    * How to use your peak flow meter
    * Oxygen safety
    * Traveling with breathing problems
    * Using oxygen at home
    * Using oxygen at home - what to ask your doctor 

## Review Date 2/18/2018

Updated by: Denis Hadjiliadis, MD, MHS, Paul F. Harron Jr. Associate Professor
of Medicine, Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care, Perelman School of
Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. Also reviewed by David
Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team. 02-25-19: Editorial update.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * COPD

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

