Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000091.htm    
                                Description: Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a common lung disease. Having COPD makes it hard to breathe.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000091.htm

# Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a common lung disease. Having
COPD makes it hard to breathe.

There are two main forms of COPD:

    * Chronic bronchitis, which involves a long-term cough with mucus
    * Emphysema, which involves damage to the lungs over time 

Most people with COPD have a combination of both conditions.

## Causes

Smoking is the main cause of COPD. The more a person smokes, the more likely
that person will develop COPD. But some people smoke for years and never get
COPD.

In rare cases, nonsmokers who lack a protein called alpha-1 antitrypsin can
develop emphysema.

![Emphysema](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/17055.jpg)

Other risk factors for COPD are:

    * Exposure to certain gases or fumes in the workplace
    * Exposure to heavy amounts of secondhand smoke and pollution
    * Frequent use of a cooking fire without proper ventilation 

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

    * Cough, with or without mucus
    * Fatigue
    * Many respiratory infections
    * Shortness of breath (dyspnea) that gets worse with mild activity
    * Trouble catching one's breath
    * Wheezing 

Because the symptoms develop slowly, some people may not know that they have
COPD.

## Exams and Tests

The best test for COPD is a lung function test called spirometry. This
involves blowing out as hard as possible into a small machine that tests lung
capacity. The results can be checked right away.

![Spirometry](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/1142.jpg)

Using a stethoscope to listen to the lungs can also be helpful. But sometimes,
the lungs sound normal, even when a person has COPD.

Imaging tests of the lungs, such as x-rays and CT scans may be ordered. With
an x-ray, the lungs may look normal, even when a person has COPD. A CT scan
will usually show signs of COPD.

Sometimes, a blood test called arterial blood gas may be done to measure the
amounts of oxygen and carbon dioxide in the blood.

If your health care provider suspects you have alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency,
a blood test will likely be ordered to detect this condition.

## Treatment

There is no cure for COPD. But there are many things you can do to relieve
symptoms and keep the disease from getting worse.

If you smoke, now is the time to quit. This is the best way to slow lung
damage.

Medicines used to treat COPD include:

    * Quick-relief drugs to help open the airways
    * Control drugs to reduce lung inflammation
    * Anti-inflammatory drugs to reduce swelling in the airways
    * Certain long-term antibiotics 

In severe cases or during flare-ups, you may need to receive:

    * Steroids by mouth or through a vein (intravenously)
    * Bronchodilators through a nebulizer
    * Oxygen therapy
    * Assistance from a machine to help breathing by using a mask or through the use of an endotracheal tube 

Your provider may prescribe antibiotics during symptom flare-ups, because an
infection can make COPD worse.

You may need oxygen therapy at home if you have a low level of oxygen in your
blood.

Pulmonary rehabilitation does not cure COPD. But it can teach you more about
the disease, train you to breathe in a different way so you can stay active
and feel better, and keeps you functioning at the highest level possible.

LIVING WITH COPD

You can do things every day to keep COPD from getting worse, protect your
lungs, and stay healthy.

Walk to build up strength:

    * Ask the provider or therapist how far to walk.
    * Slowly increase how far you walk.
    * Avoid talking if you get short of breath when you walk.
    * Use pursed lip breathing when you breathe out, to empty your lungs before the next breath. 

Things you can do to make it easier for yourself around the home include:

    * Avoid very cold air or very hot weather
    * Make sure no one smokes in your home
    * Reduce air pollution by not using the fireplace and getting rid of other irritants
    * Manage stress and your mood
    * Use oxygen if prescribed for you 

Eat healthy foods, including fish, poultry, and lean meat, as well as fruits
and vegetables. If it is hard to keep your weight up, talk to a provider or
dietitian about eating foods with more calories.

Surgery may be used to treat COPD. Only a few people benefit from these
surgical treatments:

    * Surgery to remove parts of the diseased lung, which can help less-diseased parts work better in some people with emphysema.
    * Lung transplant for a small number of very severe cases. 

## Support Groups

You can ease the stress of illness by joining a support group. Sharing with
others who have common experiences and problems can help you not feel alone.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

COPD is a long-term (chronic) illness. The disease will get worse more quickly
if you do not stop smoking.

If you have severe COPD, you will be short of breath with most activities. You
may be admitted to the hospital more often.

Talk with your provider about breathing machines and end-of-life care as the
disease progresses.

## Possible Complications

With COPD, you may have other health problems such as:

    * Irregular heartbeat (arrhythmia)
    * Need for breathing machine and oxygen therapy
    * Right-sided heart failure or cor pulmonale (heart swelling and heart failure due to chronic lung disease)
    * Pneumonia
    * Collapsed lung (pneumothorax)
    * Severe weight loss and malnutrition
    * Thinning of the bones (osteoporosis)
    * Debilitation
    * Increased anxiety 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Go to the emergency room or call the local emergency number (such as 911) if
you have a rapid increase in shortness of breath.

## Prevention

Not smoking prevents most COPD. Ask your provider about quit-smoking programs.
Medicines are also available to help you stop smoking.

## Alternative Names

COPD; Chronic obstructive airways disease; Chronic obstructive lung disease;
Chronic bronchitis; Emphysema; Bronchitis - chronic

## Patient Instructions

    * Antiplatelet drugs - P2Y12 inhibitors
    * Aspirin and heart disease
    * Being active after your heart attack
    * Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease - adults - discharge
    * COPD - control drugs
    * COPD - quick-relief drugs
    * COPD - what to ask your doctor 
    * How to breathe when you are short of breath
    * How to use a nebulizer
    * How to use an inhaler - no spacer
    * How to use an inhaler - with spacer
    * How to use your peak flow meter
    * Lung surgery - discharge 
    * Make peak flow a habit
    * Oxygen safety
    * Traveling with breathing problems
    * Using oxygen at home
    * Using oxygen at home - what to ask your doctor 

## Images

    * ![Spirometry](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1142t.jpg)Spirometry
    * ![Emphysema](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17055t.jpg)Emphysema
    * ![Bronchitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17099t.jpg)Bronchitis
    * ![Quitting smoking](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17214t.jpg)Quitting smoking
    * ![COPD \(chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19376t.jpg)COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder)
    * ![Respiratory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9248t.jpg)Respiratory system

## References

Celli BR, Zuwallack RL. Pulmonary rehabilitation. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ,
Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_.
6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 105.

Criner GJ, Bourbeau J, Diekemper RL, et al. Prevention of acute exacerbations
of COPD: American College of Chest Physicians and Canadian Thoracic Society
guideline. _Chest_. 2015;147(4):894-942. PMID: 25321320
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25321320.

Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD) website. Global
strategy for the diagnosis, management, and prevention of chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease: 2019 report. goldcopd.org/wp-
content/uploads/2018/11/GOLD-2019-v1.7-FINAL-14Nov2018-WMS.pdf. Updated
November 14, 2018. Accessed April 15, 2019.

Han MK, Lazarus SC. COPD: clinical diagnosis and management. In: Broaddus VC,
Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory
Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 44.

National Institutes of Health, National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute
website. COPD national action plan.
www.nhlbi.nih.gov/sites/default/files/media/docs/COPD%20National%20Action%20Plan%20508_0.pdf.
Updated May 22, 2017. Accessed April 15, 2019.

## Review Date 5/28/2018

Updated by: Allen J. Blaivas, DO, Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care, and
Sleep Medicine, VA New Jersey Health Care System, Clinical Assistant
Professor, Rutgers New Jersey Medical School, East Orange, NJ. Review provided
by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Internal review and update on 04/15/2019 by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![COPD](https://medlineplus.gov/images/COPD2_thumb.jpg)COPD _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

