Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000025.htm    
                                Description: Control medicines for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) are drugs you take to control or prevent symptoms of COPD. You must use them every day for them to work well.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

COPD - control drugs

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000025.htm

# COPD - control drugs

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Control medicines for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) are drugs
you take to control or prevent symptoms of COPD. You must use them every day
for them to work well.

These medicines are not used to treat flare-ups. Flare-ups are treated with
quick-relief (rescue) drugs.

Depending on the medicine, control drugs help you breathe easier by:

    * Relaxing the muscles in your airways
    * Reducing any swelling in your airways
    * Helping the lungs work better 

You and your doctor can make a plan for the control drugs that you should use.
This plan will include when you should take them and how much you should take.

You may need to take these drugs for at least a month before you start to feel
better. Take them even when you feel OK.

Ask your doctor about the side effects of any medicines you are prescribed. Be
sure you know which side effects are serious enough that you need to call your
doctor right away.

Follow instructions on how to use your medicines the right way.

Make sure you get your medicine refilled before you run out.

## Anticholinergic Inhalers

Anticholinergic inhalers include:

    * Aclidinium (Tudorza Pressair)
    * Glycopyrronium (Seebri Neohaler)
    * Ipratropium (Atrovent)
    * Tiotropium (Spiriva)
    * Umeclidinium (Incruse Ellipta) 

Use your anticholinergic inhalers every day, even if you do not have symptoms.

## Beta-agonist Inhalers

Beta-agonist inhalers include:

    * Arformoterol (Brovana)
    * Formoterol (Foradil; Perforomist)
    * Indacaterol (Arcapta Neohaler)
    * Salmeterol (Serevent)
    * Olodaterol (Striverdi Respimat) 

DO NOT use a spacer with beta-agonist inhalers.

## Inhaled Corticosteroids

Inhaled corticosteroids include:

    * Beclomethasone (Qvar)
    * Fluticasone (Flovent)
    * Ciclesonide (Alvesco)
    * Mometasone (Asmanex)
    * Budesonide ( Pulmicort)
    * Flunisolide (Aerobid)

After you use these drugs, rinse your mouth with water, gargle, and spit.

## Combination Inhaled Medicines

Combination medicines combine two drugs and are inhaled. They include:

    * Albuterol and ipratropium (Combivent Respimat; Duoneb)
    * Budesonide and formoterol (Symbicort)
    * Fluticasone and salmeterol (Advair)
    * Fluticasone and vilanterol (Breo Ellipta)
    * Formoterol and mometasone (Dulera)
    * Tiotropium and olodaterol (Stiolto Respimat)
    * Umeclidinium and vilanterol (Anoro Ellipta)
    * Glycopyrrolate and formoterol (Bevespi Aerosphere)
    * Indacaterol and glycopyrrolate (Utibron Neohaler)
    * Fluticasone and umeclidinium and vilanterol (Trelegy Ellipta)

## Phosphodiesterase Inhibitor

Roflumilast (Daliresp) is a tablet that is swallowed.

## Antibiotics

Azithromycin is a tablet that is swallowed.

## Alternative Names

Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease - control drugs; Bronchodilators - COPD
- control drugs; Beta agonist inhaler - COPD - control drugs; Anticholinergic
inhaler - COPD - control drugs; Long-acting inhaler - COPD - control drugs;
Corticosteroid inhaler - COPD - control drugs

## References

Anderson B, Brown H, Bruhl E, et al. Institute for Clinical Systems
Improvement website. Health Care Guideline: Diagnosis and Management of
Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD). 10th edition. www.icsi.org/wp-
content/uploads/2019/01/COPD.pdf. Updated January 2016. Accessed February 28,
2018.

Han MK, Lazarus SC. COPD: clinical diagnosis and management. In: Broaddus VC,
Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory
Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 44.

Rabe KF, Watz H. Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. _Lancet_.
2017;389(10082):1931-1940. PMID: 28513453
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28513453.

Vogelmeier CF, Criner GJ, Martinez FJ, et al. Global strategy for the
diagnosis, management and prevention of chronic obstructive lung disease 2017
report: GOLD Executive Summary. _Respirology_. 2017;22(3):575-601. PMID:
28150362 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28150362.

## Read More

    * Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)
    * Lung disease

## Patient Instructions

    * Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease - adults - discharge
    * COPD - what to ask your doctor 
    * Eating extra calories when sick - adults
    * How to breathe when you are short of breath
    * How to use a nebulizer
    * How to use an inhaler - no spacer
    * How to use an inhaler - with spacer
    * How to use your peak flow meter
    * Oxygen safety
    * Traveling with breathing problems
    * Using oxygen at home
    * Using oxygen at home - what to ask your doctor 

## Review Date 2/18/2018

Updated by: Denis Hadjiliadis, MD, MHS, Paul F. Harron Jr. Associate Professor
of Medicine, Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care, Perelman School of
Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. Also reviewed by David
Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team. 02-25-19: Editorial update.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * COPD

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

