Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000701.htm    
                                Description: If you have chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), you are more likely to have other health problems, too. These are called comorbidities. People with COPD tend to have more health problems than    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

COPD and other health problems

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000701.htm

# COPD and other health problems

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

If you have chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), you are more likely
to have other health problems, too. These are called comorbidities. People
with COPD tend to have more health problems than people who do not have COPD.

## Information

Having other health problems can affect your symptoms and treatments. You may
need to visit your doctor more often. You also may need to have more tests or
treatments.

Having COPD is a lot to manage. But try to stay positive. You can protect your
health by understanding why you are at risk for certain conditions and
learning how to prevent them.

## Other Health Problems you may Have

If you have COPD, you are more likely to have:

    * Repeat infections, such as pneumonia. COPD increases your risk of complications from colds and the flu. It increases your risk of needing to be hospitalized due to lung infection.
    * High blood pressure in the lungs. COPD may cause high blood pressure in the arteries that bring blood to your lungs. This is called pulmonary hypertension.
    * Heart disease. COPD increases your risk of heart attack, heart failure, chest pain, irregular heartbeat, and blood clots.
    * Diabetes. Having COPD increases this risk. Also, some COPD medicines can cause high blood sugar.
    * Osteoporosis (weak bones). People with COPD often have low levels of vitamin D, are inactive, and smoke. These factors increase your risk of bone loss and weak bones. Certain COPD medicines also may cause bone loss.
    * Depression and anxiety. It is common for people with COPD to feel depressed or anxious. Being breathless can cause anxiety. Plus, having symptoms slows you down so you can't do as much as you used to.
    * Heartburn and gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). GERD and heartburn can lead to more COPD symptoms and flare-ups.
    * Lung cancer. Continuing to smoke increases this risk. 

Many factors play a role in why people with COPD often have other health
problems. Smoking is one of the biggest culprits. Smoking is a risk factor for
most of the problems above.

    * COPD usually develops in middle age. And people tend to have more health problems as they age.
    * COPD makes it hard to breathe, which can make it hard to get enough exercise. Being inactive can lead to bone and muscle loss and increase your risk for other health problems.
    * Certain COPD medicines can increase your risk of other conditions such as bone loss, heart conditions, diabetes, and high blood pressure. 

## Staying Healthy With COPD

Work closely with your doctor to keep COPD and other medical problems under
control. Taking the following steps can also help protect your health:

    * Take medicines and treatments as directed.
    * If you smoke, quit. Also avoid secondhand smoke. Avoiding smoke is the best way to slow down damage to your lungs. Ask your doctor about stop-smoking programs and other options, such as nicotine replacement therapy and tobacco cessation medicines.
    * Discuss the risks and side effects of your medicines with your doctor. There may be better options available or things you can do to reduce or offset the harms. Tell your doctor if you notice any side effects.
    * Have a yearly flu vaccine and aÂ pneumonia vaccine to help guard against infections. Wash your hands often. Stay away from people with colds or other infections.
    * Stay as active as possible. Try short walks and light weight training. Talk with your doctor about ways to get exercise.
    * Eat a healthy diet rich in lean proteins, fish, whole grains, fruits, and vegetables. Eating several small healthy meals a day can give you the nutrients you need without feeling bloated. An overfull belly can make it hard to breathe.
    * Talk with your doctor if you feel sad, helpless, or worried. There are programs and medicines that can help you feel more positive and hopeful. 

Remember that you are not alone. Your doctor will work with you to help you
stay as healthy and active as possible.

## When to Call Your Doctor

You should call your doctor when:

    * You have new signs or symptoms that concern you.
    * You are having trouble managing one or more of your health conditions.
    * You have concerns about your health problems and treatments.
    * You feel hopeless, sad, or anxious.
    * You notice medicine side effects that bother you. 

## Alternative Names

Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease - comorbidities; COPD - comorbidities

## References

Celli BR, Zuwallack RL. Pulmonary rehabilitation. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ,
Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_.
6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 105.

Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD) website. Global
strategy for the diagnosis, management, and prevention of chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease: 2018 report. goldcopd.org/wp-
content/uploads/2017/11/GOLD-2018-v6.0-FINAL-revised-20-Nov_WMS.pdf. Accessed
February 21, 2018.

Han MK, Lazarus SC. COPD: clinical diagnosis and management. In: Broaddus VC,
Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory
Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 44.

## Review Date 11/20/2017

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * COPD

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

