Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003855.htm    
                                Description: Blood gasesÂ are a measurement of how much oxygen and carbon dioxideÂ are in your blood.Â They also determine the acidity (pH) of your blood.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Blood gases

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003855.htm

# Blood gases

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Blood gasesÂ are a measurement of how much oxygen and carbon dioxideÂ are in
your blood.Â They also determine the acidity (pH) of your blood.

## How the Test is Performed

Usually, blood is taken from an artery. In some cases, blood from a vein may
be used.

Blood may be collected from one of the following arteries:

    * Radial artery in the wrist
    * Femoral artery in the groin
    * Brachial artery in the arm

The health care provider may test circulation to the hand before taking a
sample of blood from the wrist area.

The provider inserts a small needle through the skin into the artery. The
sample is quickly sent to a laboratory for analysis.

## How to Prepare for the Test

There is no special preparation. If you are on oxygen therapy, the oxygen
concentration must remain constant for 20 minutes before the test.

Tell your provider if you are taking any blood-thinning medicines
(anticoagulants), including aspirin.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or slight bruising. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

The test is used to evaluate respiratory diseases and conditions that affect
the lungs. It helps determine the effectiveness of oxygen therapy. The test
also provides information about the body's acid/base balance, which can reveal
important clues about lung and kidney function and the body's general
metabolic state. This is the physical and chemical processes in the body that
convert or use energy.

## Normal Results

Values at sea level:

    * Partial pressure of oxygen (PaO2): 75 to 100 millimeters of mercury (mm Hg), or 10.5 to 13.5 kilopascal (kPa)
    * Partial pressure of carbon dioxide (PaCO2): 38 to 42 mm Hg (5.1 to 5.6 kPa)
    * Arterial blood pH: 7.38 to 7.42
    * Oxygen saturation (SaO2): 94% to 100%
    * Bicarbonate (HCO3): 22 to 28 milliequivalents per liter (mEq/L) 

At altitudes of 3,000 feet (900 meters) and higher, the oxygen value is lower.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some
laboratories use different measurements or may test different specimens. Talk
to your doctor about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be due to lung, kidney, or metabolic diseases. Head or
neck injuries or other injuries that affect breathing can also lead to
abnormal results.

## Risks

There is little risk when the procedure is done correctly. Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another and from one side of the body to the
other. Taking blood from some people may be more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Hematoma (blood buildup under the skin)
    * Excessive bleeding
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

## Alternative Names

Arterial blood gas analysis; ABG; Hypoxia - ABG; Respiratory failure - ABG

## Images

    * ![Blood gases test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9126t.jpg)Blood gases test

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Blood gases, arterial (ABG) - blood. In: Chernecky
CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:208-213.

Weinberger SE, Cockrill BA, Mandel J. Evaluation of the patient with pulmonary
disease. In: Weinberger SE, Cockrill BA, Mandel J, eds. _Principles of
Pulmonary Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 3.

## Review Date 7/20/2018

Updated by: Allen J. Blaivas, DO, Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care, and
Sleep Medicine, VA New Jersey Health Care System, Clinical Assistant
Professor, Rutgers New Jersey Medical School, East Orange, NJ. Review provided
by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Acute
Bronchitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AcuteBronchitis_thumb.jpg)Acute
Bronchitis _Read more_

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Breathing_thumb.jpg)Breathing Problems
_Read more_

![COPD](https://medlineplus.gov/images/COPD2_thumb.jpg)COPD _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

