Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000053.htm    
                                Description: Pursed lip breathing helps you use less energy to breathe. It can help you relax. When you are short of breath, it helps you slow the pace of your breathing and can help you feel less short of breath.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

How to breathe when you are short of breath

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000053.htm

# How to breathe when you are short of breath

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pursed lip breathing helps you use less energy to breathe. It can help you
relax. When you are short of breath, it helps you slow the pace of your
breathing and can help you feel less short of breath.

Use pursed lip breathing when you do things that make you short of breath,
such as:

    * Exercise
    * Bend
    * Lift
    * Climb stairs
    * Feel anxious

You can practice pursed lip breathing anytime. Try to practice 4 or 5 times a
day when you:

    * Watch TV
    * Use your computer
    * Read a newspaper

## How to do Pursed lip Breathing

The steps to do pursed lip breathing are:

    1. Relax the muscles in your neck and shoulders.
    2. Sit in a comfortable chair with your feet on the floor.
    3. Inhale slowly through your nose for 2 counts.
    4. Feel your belly get larger as you breathe in.
    5. Pucker your lips, as if you were going to whistle or blow out a candle.
    6. Exhale slowly through your lips for 4 or more counts. 

Exhale normally. DO NOT force the air out. DO NOT hold your breath when you
are doing pursed lip breathing. Repeat these steps until your breathing slows.

## Alternative Names

Pursed lip breathing; COPD - pursed lip breathing; Emphysema - pursed lip
breathing; Chronic bronchitis - pursed lip breathing; Pulmonary fibrosis -
pursed lip breathing; Interstitial lung disease - pursed lip breathing;
Hypoxia - pursed lip breathing; Chronic respiratory failure - pursed lip
breathing

## Images

    * ![Pursed lip breathing](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22872t.jpg)Pursed lip breathing

## References

Celli BR, Zuwallack RL. Pulmonary rehabilitation. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ,
Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_.
6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 105.

Schwartzstein RM, Adams L. Dyspnea. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et
al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 29.

## Read More

    * Breathing difficulty
    * Bronchiolitis
    * Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)
    * Community-acquired pneumonia in adults
    * Cystic fibrosis
    * Interstitial lung disease
    * Lung surgery

## Patient Instructions

    * Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease - adults - discharge
    * COPD - control drugs
    * COPD - quick-relief drugs
    * Interstitial lung disease - adults - discharge
    * Lung surgery - discharge 

## Review Date 2/18/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Asthma
    * Asthma in Children
    * Breathing Problems
    * COPD
    * Chronic Bronchitis
    * Cystic Fibrosis
    * Emphysema

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

