Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000699.htm    
                                Description: A nebulizer turns your COPD medicine into a mist. It is easier to breathe the medicine into your lungs this way. If you use a nebulizer, your COPD medicines will come in liquid form.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

COPD - how to use a nebulizer

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000699.htm

# COPD - how to use a nebulizer

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A nebulizer turns your COPD medicine into a mist. It is easier to breathe the
medicine into your lungs this way. If you use a nebulizer, your COPD medicines
will come in liquid form.

Many people with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) do not need to
use a nebulizer. Another way to get your medicine is with an inhaler, which is
usually just as effective.

## How to use a Nebulizer

With a nebulizer, you will sit with your machine and use a mouthpiece.
Medicine goes into your lungs as you take slow, deep breaths for 10 to 15
minutes.

Nebulizers can deliver medicine with less effort than inhalers. You and your
doctor can decide if a nebulizer is the best way to get the medicine you need.
The choice of device may be based on whether you find a nebulizer easier to
use and what type of medicine you take.

Most nebulizers use air compressors. Some use sound vibrations. These are
called "ultrasonic nebulizers." They are quieter, but they cost more.

Follow these steps to set up and use your nebulizer:

    * Connect the hose to the air compressor.
    * Fill the medicine cup with your prescription. To avoid spills, close the medicine cup tightly and always hold the mouthpiece straight up and down.
    * Attach the other end of the hose to the mouthpiece and medicine cup.
    * Turn on the nebulizer machine.
    * Place the mouthpiece in your mouth. Keep your lips firm around the mouthpiece so that all of the medicine goes into your lungs.
    * Breathe through your mouth until all the medicine is used. This usually takes 10 to 15 minutes. Some people use a nose clip to help them breathe only through their mouth.
    * Turn off the machine when you are done.

## Taking Care of Your Nebulizer

You will need to clean your nebulizer to prevent bacteria from growing in it,
since bacteria can cause a lung infection. It takes some time to clean your
nebulizer and keep it working properly. Be sure to unplug the machine before
cleaning.

After each use:

    * Wash the medicine cup and mouthpiece with warm running water.
    * Let them air dry on clean paper towels.
    * Later, hook up the nebulizer and run air through the machine for 20 seconds to make sure all of the parts are dry.
    * Take apart and store the machine in a covered area until the next use. 

Once per day, you may add a mild dish soap to the cleaning routine above.

Once or twice each week:

    * You may add a soaking step to the cleaning routine above.
    * Soak the cup and mouthpiece in 1 part distilled white vinegar, 2 parts warm water solution. 

You may clean the outside of your machine with a warm, damp cloth as
necessary. Never wash the hose or tubing.

You will also need to change the filter. The instructions that come with your
nebulizer will tell you when you should change the filter.

## Traveling With Your Nebulizer

Most nebulizers are small, so they are easy to transport. You may carry your
nebulizer in your carry-on luggage when traveling by plane.

    * Keep your nebulizer covered and packed in a safe place.
    * Pack your medicines in a cool, dry place when traveling. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your doctor if you are having trouble using your nebulizer. You should
also call if you have any of these problems while using your nebulizer:

    * Anxiety
    * Feeling that your heart is racing or pounding (palpitations)
    * Shortness of breath
    * Feeling very excited

These may be signs that you are getting too much medicine.

## Alternative Names

Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease - nebulizer

## References

Celli BR, Zuwallack RL. Pulmonary rehabilitation. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ,
Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_.
6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 105.

Criner GJ, Bourbeau J, Diekemper RL, et al. Prevention of acute exacerbations
of COPD: American College of Chest Physicians and Canadian Thoracic Society
guideline. _Chest_. 2015;147(4):894-942. PMID: 25321320
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25321320.

Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD) website. Global
strategy for the diagnosis, management, and prevention of chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease: 2018 report. goldcopd.org/wp-
content/uploads/2017/11/GOLD-2018-v6.0-FINAL-revised-20-Nov_WMS.pdf. Accessed
February 21, 2018.

Han MK, Lazarus SC. COPD: clinical diagnosis and management. In: Broaddus VC,
Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory
Medicine._ 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 44.

## Review Date 11/20/2017

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * COPD

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

