Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000043.htm    
                                Description: A peak flow meter is a small device that helps you check how well your asthma is controlled. Peak flow meters are most helpful if you have moderate to severe persistent asthma.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

How to use your peak flow meter

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000043.htm

# How to use your peak flow meter

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A peak flow meter is a small device that helps you check how well your asthma
is controlled. Peak flow meters are most helpful if you have moderate to
severe persistent asthma.

## How to Measure Peak Flow

Measuring your peak flow can tell you and your health care provider how well
you blow air out of your lungs. If your airways are narrowed and blocked due
to asthma, your peak flow values drop.

You can check your peak flow at home. Here are the basic steps:

    * Move the marker to the bottom of the numbered scale.
    * Stand up straight.
    * Take a deep breath. Fill your lungs all the way.
    * Hold your breath while you place the mouthpiece in your mouth, between your teeth. Close your lips around it. DO NOT put your tongue against or inside the hole.
    * Blow out as hard and fast as you can in a single blow. Your first burst of air is the most important. So blowing for a longer time will not affect your result.
    * Write down the number you get. But, if you coughed or did not do the steps right, do not write down the number. Instead, do the steps over again.
    * Move the marker back to the bottom and repeat all these steps 2 more times. The highest of the 3 numbers is your peak flow number. Write it down in your log chart. 

Many children under age 5 cannot use a peak flow meter very well. But some are
able to. Start using peak flow meters before age 5 to get your child used to
them.

## Find Your Personal Best

To find your personal best peak flow number, take your peak flow each day for
2 to 3 weeks. Your asthma should be under control during this time. To find
your personal best, take your peak flow as close to the following times of day
as you can:

    * Between noon and 2 p.m. each day
    * Each time after you take your quick-relief medicine to relieve symptoms
    * Any other time your provider tells you to 

_These times for taking your peak flow are only for finding your personal
best._

Write down the number you get for each peak flow reading. The highest peak
flow number you had during the 2 to 3 weeks is your personal best.

Ask your provider to help you fill out an asthma action plan. This plan should
tell you when to call the doctor for help and when to use medicines if your
peak flow drops to a certain level.

Your personal best can change over time. Ask your doctor when you should check
for a new personal best.

## Use Your Peak Flow Meter Every Day

Once you know your personal best, make taking your peak flow a habit. Take
your peak flow:

    * Every morning when you wake up, before you take medicine. Make this part of your daily morning routine.
    * When you are having asthma symptoms or an attack.
    * After you take medicine for an attack. This can tell you how bad your asthma attack is and if your medicine is working.
    * Any other time your doctor tells you to. 

Check to see which zone your peak flow number is in. Do what your provider
told you to do when you are in that zone. This information should be in your
action plan. If you use more than one peak flow meter (such as one at home and
another one at school or work), be sure that all of them are the same brand.

## Alternative Names

Peak flow meter - how to use; Asthma - peak flow meter; Reactive airway
disease - peak flow meter; Bronchial asthma - peak flow meter

## Images

    * ![How to measure peak flow](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22863t.jpg)How to measure peak flow

## References

Bergstrom J, Kurth M, Hieman BE, et al. Institute for Clinical Systems
Improvement website. Health Care Guideline: Diagnosis and Management of
Asthma. 11th ed. www.icsi.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/01/Asthma.pdf. Updated
December 2016. Accessed February 28, 2018.

Durrani SR, Busse WW. Management of asthma in adolescents and adults. In:
Adkinson NF Jr, Bochner BS, Burks AW, et al, eds. _Middleton's Allergy
Principles and Practice_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2014:chap 55.

National Asthma Education and Prevention Program website. How to use a peak
flow meter. How to use a metered-dose inhaler.
www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health/public/lung/asthma/asthma_tipsheets.pdf. Updated
March 2013. Accessed February 28, 2018.

## Read More

    * Asthma
    * Asthma and allergy resources
    * Asthma in children
    * Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)

## Patient Instructions

    * Asthma - child - discharge
    * Asthma - control drugs
    * Asthma in adults - what to ask the doctor
    * Asthma in children - what to ask your doctor
    * Asthma - quick-relief drugs 
    * Bronchiolitis - discharge
    * Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease - adults - discharge
    * COPD - control drugs
    * COPD - quick-relief drugs
    * COPD - what to ask your doctor 
    * Exercise-induced asthma
    * Exercising and asthma at school 
    * Make peak flow a habit
    * Signs of an asthma attack
    * Stay away from asthma triggers

## Review Date 2/18/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. 02-25-19: Editorial update.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Asthma
    * Asthma in Children
    * COPD

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

