Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000696.htm    
                                Description: Smoking is the leading cause of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Smoking is also a trigger for COPD flare-ups. Smoking damages the air sacs, airways, and the lining of your lungs. Injured    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Smoking and COPD

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000696.htm

# Smoking and COPD

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Smoking is the leading cause of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
Smoking is also a trigger for COPD flare-ups. Smoking damages the air sacs,
airways, and the lining of your lungs. Injured lungs have trouble moving
enough air in and out, so it's hard to breathe.

## Information

Things that make COPD symptoms worse are called triggers. Knowing what your
triggers are and how to avoid them can help you feel better. Smoking is a
trigger for many people who have COPD. Smoking can cause an exacerbation, or
flare-up, of your symptoms.

You do not have to be a smoker for smoking to cause harm. Exposure to someone
else's smoking (called secondhand smoke) is also a trigger for COPD flare-ups.

Smoking damages your lungs. When you have COPD and smoke, your lungs will get
damaged more rapidly than if you were to stop smoking.

## Quit Smoking

Quitting smoking is the best thing you can do to protect your lungs and keep
your COPD symptoms from getting worse. This can help you stay more active and
enjoy life.

Tell your friends and family about your goal to quit. Take a break from people
and situations that make you want to smoke. Keep busy with other things. Take
it 1 day at a time.

Ask your health care provider to help you quit. There are many ways to quit
smoking, including:

    * Medicines
    * Nicotine replacement therapy
    * Support groups, counseling, or stop-smoking classes in person or online 

It is not easy, but anyone can quit. Newer medicines and programs can be very
helpful.

List the reasons you want to quit. Then set a quit date. You may need to try
quitting more than once. And that's OK. Keep trying if you do not succeed at
first. The more times you try to quit, the more likely you are to be
successful.

## Avoid Secondhand Smoke

Secondhand smoke will trigger more COPD flare-ups and cause more damage to
your lungs. So you need to take steps to avoid secondhand smoke.

    * Make your home and car smoke-free zones. Tell others you are with to follow this rule. Take ashtrays out of your home.
    * Choose smoke-free restaurants, bars, and workplaces (if possible).
    * Avoid public places that allow smoking.

Setting these rules can:

    * Reduce the amount of secondhand smoke you and your family breathe in
    * Help you quit smoking and stay smoke-free

If there are smokers at your workplace, ask someone about policies regarding
if and where smoking is allowed. Tips to help with secondhand smoke at work
are:

    * Make sure there are proper containers for smokers to throw away their cigarette butts and matches.
    * Ask coworkers who smoke to keep their coats away from work areas.
    * Use a fan and keep windows open, if possible.
    * Use an alternative exit to avoid smokers outside the building.

## Alternative Names

Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease - smoking; COPD - secondhand smoke

## Images

    * ![Smoking and COPD \(chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19377t.jpg)Smoking and COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder)

## References

Celli BR, Zuwallack RL. Pulmonary rehabilitation. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ,
Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_.
6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 105.

Criner GJ, Bourbeau J, Diekemper RL, et al. Prevention of acute exacerbations
of COPD: American College of Chest Physicians and Canadian Thoracic Society
guideline. _Chest_. 2015;147(4):894-942. PMID: 25321320
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25321320.

Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD) website. Global
strategy for the diagnosis, management, and prevention of chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease: 2019 report. goldcopd.org/wp-
content/uploads/2018/11/GOLD-2019-v1.7-FINAL-14Nov2018-WMS.pdf. Accessed
October 22, 2019.

Han MK, Lazarus SC. COPD: clinical diagnosis and management. In: Broaddus VC,
Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory
Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 44.

## Review Date 10/1/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * COPD
    * Smoking

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

