Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000242.htm    
                                Description: You had surgery to treat a lung condition. Now that you    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Lung surgery - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000242.htm

# Lung surgery - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You had surgery to treat a lung condition. Now that you're going home, follow
your health care provider's instructions on how to care for yourself at home
while you heal. Use the information below as a reminder.

## When You're in the Hospital

You may have spent time in the intensive care unit (ICU) before going to a
regular hospital room. A chest tube to drain fluid from inside your chest was
in place part or all of the time you were in the hospital. You may still have
it when you go home.

## What to Expect at Home

It will take 6 to 8 weeks to get your energy back. You may have pain when you
move your arm, twist your upper body, and when you breathe in deeply.

## Activity

Ask your surgeon how much weight is safe for you to lift. You may be told not
to lift or carry anything heavier than 10 pounds, or 4.5 kilograms (about a
gallon, or 4 liters of milk) for 2 weeks after video-assisted thoracoscopic
surgery and 6 to 8 weeks after open surgery.

You may walk 2 or 3 times a day. Start with short distances and slowly
increase how far you walk. If you have stairs in your home, go up and down
slowly. Take one step at a time. Set up your home so that you do not have to
climb stairs too often.

Remember you will need extra time to rest after being active. If it hurts when
you do something, stop doing that activity.

    * DO NOT do yard work for 4 to 8 weeks after surgery. DO NOT use a push mower for at least 8 weeks. Ask your surgeon or nurse when you can start doing these things again.
    * You can start doing light housework 2 weeks after surgery. 

It is probably OK to start sexual activity when you can climb 2 flights of
stairs without being short of breath. Check with your surgeon.

Make sure your home is safe as you are recovering. For example, remove throw
rugs to prevent tripping and falling. To stay safe in the bathroom, install
grab bars to help you get in and out of the tub or shower.

For the first 6 weeks after surgery, be careful how you use your arms and
upper body when you move. Press a pillow over your incision when you need to
cough or sneeze.

Ask your surgeon when it is OK to start driving again. DO NOT drive if you are
taking narcotic pain medicine. Drive only short distances at first. DO NOT
drive when traffic is heavy.

It is common to take 4 to 8 weeks off work after lung surgery. Ask your
surgeon when you can go back to work. You may need to adjust your work
activities when you first go back, or work only part-time for a while.

## Self-care

Your surgeon will give you a prescription for pain medicine. Get it filled on
your way home from the hospital so you have it when you need it. Take the
medicine when you start having pain. Waiting too long to take it will allow
the pain to get worse than it should.

You will use a breathing device to help you build up strength in your lung. It
does this by helping you take deep breaths. Use it 4 to 6 times a day for the
first 2 weeks after surgery.

If you smoke, ask your health care provider for help quitting. DO NOT let
others smoke in your house.

## Wound Care

If you have a chest tube:

    * There may be some skin soreness around the tube.
    * Clean around the tube once a day.
    * If the tube comes out, cover the hole with a clean dressing and call your surgeon right away.
    * Keep the dressing (bandage) on the wound for 1 to 2 days after the tube has been removed. 

Change the dressing on your incisions every day or as often as instructed. You
will be told when you no longer need to keep the dressing on your incisions.
Wash the wound area with mild soap and water.

You may take a shower once all of your dressings have been removed.

    * DO NOT try to wash or scrub off the strips of tape or glue. It will fall off on its own in about a week.
    * DO NOT soak in a bathtub, pool, or hot tub until your surgeon tells you it is ok. 

Sutures (stitches) are usually removed after 7 days. Staples are usually
removed after 7 to 14 days. If you have the kind of sutures that are inside
your chest, your body will absorb them and you will not need to have them
removed.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your surgeon or nurse if you have any of the following:

    * Fever of 101Â°F (38.3Â°C), or higher
    * Incisions are bleeding, red, warm to the touch, or have a thick, yellow, green, or milky drainage coming from them
    * Pain medicines do not ease your pain
    * It is hard to breathe
    * Cough that does not go away, or you are coughing up mucus that is yellow or green, or has blood in it
    * Cannot drink or eat
    * Your leg is swelling or you have leg pain
    * Your chest, neck, or face is swelling
    * Crack or hole in the chest tube, or the tube comes out
    * Cough up blood 

## Alternative Names

Thoracotomy - discharge; Lung tissue removal - discharge; Pneumonectomy -
discharge; Lobectomy - discharge; Lung biopsy - discharge; Thoracoscopy -
discharge; Video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery - discharge; VATS - discharge

## References

Dexter EU. Perioperative care of the thoracic surgical patient. In: Selke FW,
del Nido PJ, Swanson SJ, eds. _Sabiston and Spencer Surgery of the Chest_. 9th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 4.

Putnam JB. Lung, chest wall, pleura, and mediastinum. In: Townsend CM,
Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery: The
Biological Basis of Modern Surgical Practice_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 57.

## Read More

    * Bronchiectasis
    * Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)
    * Lung cancer
    * Lung cancer - small cell
    * Lung surgery
    * Non-small cell lung cancer
    * Tips on how to quit smoking

## Patient Instructions

    * Bathroom safety for adults
    * How to breathe when you are short of breath
    * Oxygen safety
    * Preventing falls
    * Traveling with breathing problems
    * Using oxygen at home

## Review Date 1/31/2019

Updated by: Mary C. Mancini, MD, PhD, Director, Cardiothoracic Surgery,
Christus Highland Medical Center, Shreveport, LA. Review provided by VeriMed
Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * COPD
    * Emphysema
    * Lung Cancer
    * Lung Diseases
    * Pleural Disorders

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

