Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003828.htm    
                                Description: A pulmonary ventilation/perfusion scan involves two nuclear scan tests to measure breathing (ventilation) and circulation (perfusion) in all areas of the lungs.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pulmonary ventilation/perfusion scan

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003828.htm

# Pulmonary ventilation/perfusion scan

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A pulmonary ventilation/perfusion scan involves two nuclear scan tests to
measure breathing (ventilation) and circulation (perfusion) in all areas of
the lungs.

## How the Test is Performed

A pulmonary ventilation/perfusion scan is actually 2 tests. They may be done
separately or together.

During the perfusion scan, a health care provider injects radioactive albumin
into your vein. You are placed on a movable table that is under the arm of a
scanner. The machine scans your lungs as blood flows through them to find the
location of the radioactive particles.

During the ventilation scan, you breathe in radioactive gas through a mask
while you are sitting or lying on a table under the scanner arm.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You DO NOT need to stop eating (fast), be on a special diet, or take any
medicines before the test.

A chest x-ray is usually done before or after a ventilation and perfusion
scan.

You wear a hospital gown or comfortable clothing that does not have metal
fasteners.

## How the Test will Feel

The table may feel hard or cold. You may feel a sharp prick when the IV is
placed in the vein in your arm for the perfusion part of the scan.

The mask used during the ventilation scan may make you feel nervous about
being in a small space (claustrophobia). You must lie still during the scan.

The radioisotope injection usually does not cause discomfort.

## Why the Test is Performed

The ventilation scan is used to see how well air moves and blood flows through
the lungs. The perfusion scan measures the blood supply through the lungs.

A ventilation and perfusion scan is most often done to detect a pulmonary
embolus (blood clot in the lungs). It is also used to:

    * Detect abnormal circulation (shunts) in the blood vessels of the lungs (pulmonary vessels)
    * Test regional (different lung areas) lung function in people with advanced pulmonary disease, such as COPD

## Normal Results

The provider should take a ventilation and perfusion scan and then evaluate it
with a chest x-ray. All parts of both lungs should take up the radioisotope
evenly.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

If the lungs take up lower than normal amounts of radioisotope during a
ventilation or perfusion scan, it may be due to any of the following:

    * Airway obstruction
    * Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)
    * Pneumonia
    * Narrowing of the pulmonary artery
    * Pneumonitis (inflammation of the lungs due to breathing in a foreign substance)
    * Pulmonary embolus
    * Reduced breathing and ventilation ability 

## Risks

Risks are about the same as for x-rays (radiation) and needle pricks.

No radiation is released from the scanner. Instead, it detects radiation and
converts it into an image.

There is a small exposure to radiation from the radioisotope. The
radioisotopes used during scans are short-lived. All of the radiation leaves
the body in a few days. However, as with any radiation exposure, caution is
advised for pregnant or breast-feeding women.

There is a slight risk for infection or bleeding at the site where the needle
is inserted. The risk with perfusion scan is the same as with inserting an
intravenous needle for any other purpose.

In rare cases, a person may develop an allergy to the radioisotope. This may
include a serious anaphylactic reaction.

## Considerations

A pulmonary ventilation and perfusion scan may be a lower-risk alternative to
pulmonary angiography for evaluating disorders of the lung blood supply.

This test may not provide a definite diagnosis, particularly in people with
lung disease. Other tests may be needed to confirm or rule out the findings of
a pulmonary ventilation and perfusion scan.

This test has largely been replaced by CT pulmonary angiography for diagnosing
pulmonary embolism. However, people with kidney problems or an allergy to
contrast dye can more safely have this test.

## Alternative Names

V/Q scan; Ventilation/perfusion scan; Lung ventilation/perfusion scan;
Pulmonary embolism - V/Q scan; PE- V/Q scan; Blood clot - V/Q scan

## Images

    * ![Albumin injection](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9797t.jpg)Albumin injection

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Lung scan, perfusion and ventilation (V/Q scan) -
diagnostic. In: Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic
Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:738-740.

Herring W. Nuclear medicine: understanding the principles and recognizing the
basics. In: Herring W, ed. _Learning Radiology_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:e1-e18.

## Review Date 7/20/2018

Updated by: Allen J. Blaivas, DO, Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care, and
Sleep Medicine, VA New Jersey Health Care System, Clinical Assistant
Professor, Rutgers New Jersey Medical School, East Orange, NJ. Review provided
by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![COPD](https://medlineplus.gov/images/COPD2_thumb.jpg)COPD _Read more_

![Lung Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LungDiseases_thumb.jpg)Lung
Diseases _Read more_

![Nuclear Scans](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NuclearScans_thumb.jpg)Nuclear
Scans _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

