Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000698.htm    
                                Description: Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease symptoms can worsen suddenly. You may find it hard to breathe. You may cough or wheeze more or produce more phlegm. You might also feel anxious and have trouble sleeping    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

COPD flare-ups

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000698.htm

# COPD flare-ups

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease symptoms can worsen suddenly. You may
find it hard to breathe. You may cough or wheeze more or produce more phlegm.
You might also feel anxious and have trouble sleeping or doing your daily
activities. This problem is called a chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
(COPD) exacerbation, or COPD flare-up.

## Causes

Certain illnesses, colds, and lung infections from viruses or bacteria can
lead to flare-ups. Other causes may include:

    * Being around smoke or other pollutants
    * Weather changes
    * Doing too much activity
    * Being run-down
    * Feeling stressed or anxious

You can often manage a flare-up right away with medicines and self-care. Work
with your health care provider on an action plan for COPD exacerbations so
that you know what to do.

Get to know your usual symptoms, sleep patterns, and when you have good or bad
days. This can help you learn the difference between your normal symptoms and
signs of a COPD flare-up.

## Warning Signs of COPD Flare-up

Signs of a COPD flare-up last 2 days or more and are more intense than your
usual symptoms. The symptoms get worse and just don't go away. If you have a
full-blown exacerbation, you may need to go to the hospital.

Common early signs include:

    * Trouble catching your breath
    * Noisy, wheezing breathing sounds
    * Coughing, sometimes with more mucus than usual or a change in the color of your mucus

Other possible signs of flare-up include:

    * Not being able to take deep breaths
    * Difficulty sleeping
    * Morning headaches
    * Abdominal pain
    * Anxiety
    * Difficulty speaking
    * Swelling of the ankles or legs
    * Gray or pale skin
    * Blue or purple lips or nail tips
    * Trouble speaking in full sentences

## What to do at the First Sign of a Flare-up

At the first sign of a flare-up:

    * DO NOT panic. You may be able to keep symptoms from getting worse.
    * Take medicines as directed for flare-ups. These may include quick-relief inhalers, steroids or antibiotics you take by mouth, anti-anxiety medicines, or medicine through a nebulizer.
    * Take antibiotics as directed if your provider prescribes them.
    * Use oxygen if prescribed.
    * Use pursed lip breathing to save energy, slow your breathing, and help you relax.
    * If your symptoms do not get better within 48 hours, or your symptoms keep getting worse, call your provider or go to the hospital. 

## How to Prevent COPD Flare-ups

If you have COPD:

    * Stop smoking and avoid secondhand smoke. Avoiding smoke is the best way to slow down damage to your lungs. Ask your provider about stop-smoking programs and other options, such as nicotine-replacement therapy.
    * Take your medicines as directed.
    * Ask your provider about pulmonary rehabilitation. This program includes exercise, breathing, and nutrition tips.
    * See your provider 1 to 2 times per year for check-ups, or more often if directed.
    * Use oxygen if your provider recommends it. 

Avoid colds and the flu, you should:

    * Stay away from people with colds.
    * Wash your hands often. Carry hand sanitizer for times when you cannot wash your hands.
    * Get all of your recommended vaccines, including a flu shot every year.
    * Avoid very cold air.
    * Keep air pollutants, such as fireplace smoke and dust, out of your home. 

Live a healthy lifestyle:

    * Stay as active as possible. Try short walks and light weight-training. Talk with your provider about ways to get exercise.
    * Take frequent breaks throughout the day. Rest between daily activities to save your energy and give your lungs time to recover.
    * Eat a healthy diet rich in lean proteins, fish, fruits, and vegetables. Eat several small meals a day.
    * DO NOT drink liquids with meals. This will keep you from feeling too full. But, be sure to drink liquids at other times to keep from getting dehydrated. 

## When to Call the Doctor

After following your COPD action plan, call your provider if your breathing is
still:

    * Getting harder
    * Faster than before
    * Shallow and you cannot get a deep breath

Also call your provider if:

    * You need to lean forward when sitting in order to breathe easily
    * You are using muscles around your ribs to help you breathe
    * You are having headaches more often
    * You feel sleepy or confused
    * You have a fever
    * You are coughing up dark mucus
    * Your lips, fingertips, or the skin around your fingernails is blue
    * You have chest pain or discomfort
    * You cannot speak in full sentences

## Alternative Names

COPD exacerbation; Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease exacerbation;
Emphysema exacerbation; Chronic bronchitis exacerbation

## References

Criner GJ, Bourbeau J, Diekemper RL, et al. Prevention of acute exacerbations
of COPD: American College of Chest Physicians and Canadian Thoracic Society
guideline. _Chest_. 2015;147(4):894-942. PMID: 25321320
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25321320.

Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD) website. Global
strategy for the diagnosis, management, and prevention of COPD: 2017 report.
goldcopd.org/gold-2017-global-strategy-diagnosis-management-prevention-copd/.
Accessed December 13, 2017.

Han MK, Lazarus SC. COPD: clinical diagnosis and management. In: Broaddus VC,
Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory
Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 44.

## Review Date 10/23/2017

Updated by: Denis Hadjiliadis, MD, MHS, Paul F. Harron Jr. Associate Professor
of Medicine, Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care, Perelman School of
Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. Also reviewed by David
Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * COPD

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

