Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000201.htm    
                                Description: Unstable angina is a condition in which your heart doesn    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Unstable angina

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000201.htm

# Unstable angina

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Unstable angina is a condition in which your heart doesn't get enough blood
flow and oxygen. It may lead to a heart attack.

Angina is a type of chest discomfort caused by poor blood flow through the
blood vessels (coronary vessels) of the heart muscle (myocardium).

## Causes

Coronary artery disease due to atherosclerosis is the most common cause of
unstable angina. Atherosclerosis is the buildup of fatty material, called
plaque, along the walls of the arteries. This causes arteries to become
narrowed and less flexible. The narrowing can reduce blood flow to the heart,
causing chest pain.

![Angina](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/18048.jpg)

People with unstable angina are at higher risk of having a heart attack.

Rare causes of angina are:

    * Abnormal function of tiny branch arteries without narrowing of larger arteries (called microvascular dysfunction or Syndrome X)
    * Coronary artery spasm

Risk factors for coronary artery disease include:

    * Diabetes
    * Family history of early coronary heart disease (a close relative such as a sibling or parent had heart disease before age 55 in a man or before age 65 in a woman)
    * High blood pressure
    * High LDL cholesterol
    * Low HDL cholesterol
    * Male gender
    * Sedentary lifestyle (not getting enough exercise)
    * Obesity
    * Older age
    * Smoking 

## Symptoms

Symptoms of angina may include:

    * Chest pain that you may also feel in the shoulder, arm, jaw, neck, back, or other area
    * Discomfort that feels like tightness, squeezing, crushing, burning, choking, or aching
    * Discomfort that occurs at rest and does not easily go away when you take medicine
    * Shortness of breath
    * Sweating 

With stable angina, the chest pain or other symptoms only occur with a certain
amount of activity or stress. The pain does not occur more often or get worse
over time.

Unstable angina is chest pain that is sudden and often gets worse over a short
period of time. You may be developing unstable angina if the chest pain:

    * Starts to feel different, is more severe, comes more often, or occurs with less activity or while you are at rest
    * Lasts longer than 15 to 20 minutes
    * Occurs without cause (for example, while you are asleep or sitting quietly)
    * Does not respond well to a medicine called nitroglycerin (especially if this medicine worked to relieve chest pain in the past)
    * Occurs with a drop in blood pressure or shortness of breath 

Unstable angina is a warning sign that a heart attack may happen soon and
needs to be treated right away. See your health care provider if you have any
type of chest pain.

## Exams and Tests

The provider will do a physical exam and check your blood pressure. The
provider may hear abnormal sounds, such as a heart murmur or irregular
heartbeat, when listening to your chest with a stethoscope.

Tests for angina include:

    * Blood tests to show if you have heart tissue damage or are at a high risk for heart attack, including troponin I and T-00745, creatine phosphokinase (CPK), and myoglobin.
    * ECG.
    * Echocardiography.
    * Stress tests, such as exercise tolerance test (stress test or treadmill test), nuclear stress test, or stress echocardiogram.
    * Coronary angiography. This test involves taking pictures of the heart arteries using x-rays and dye. It is the most direct test to diagnose heart artery narrowing and find clots.

## Treatment

You may need to check into the hospital to get some rest, have more tests, and
prevent complications.

Blood thinners (antiplatelet drugs) are used to treat and prevent unstable
angina. You will receive these drugs as soon as possible if you can take them
safely. Medicines include aspirin and the prescription drug clopidogrel or
something similar (ticagrelor, prasugrel). These medicines may be able to
reduce the chance of a heart attack or the severity of a heart attack that
occurs.

During an unstable angina event:

    * You may get heparin (or another blood thinner) and nitroglycerin (under the tongue or through an IV).
    * Other treatments may include medicines to control blood pressure, anxiety, abnormal heart rhythms, and cholesterol (such as a statin drug). 

A procedure called angioplasty and stenting can often be done to open a
blocked or narrowed artery.

    * Angioplasty is a procedure to open narrowed or blocked blood vessels that supply blood to the heart.
    * A coronary artery stent is a small, metal mesh tube that opens up (expands) inside a coronary artery. A stent is often placed after angioplasty. It helps prevent the artery from closing up again. A drug-eluting stent has medicine in it that helps prevent the artery from closing over time. 

Heart bypass surgery may be done for some people. The decision to have this
surgery depends on:

    * Which arteries are blocked
    * How many arteries are involved
    * Which parts of the coronary arteries are narrowed
    * How severe the narrowings are 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Unstable angina is a sign of more severe heart disease.

How well you do depends on many different things, including:

    * How many and which arteries in your heart are blocked, and how severe the blockage is
    * If you have ever had a heart attack
    * How well your heart muscle is able to pump blood out to your body 

Abnormal heart rhythms and heart attacks can cause sudden death.

## Possible Complications

Unstable angina may lead to:

    * Abnormal heart rhythms (arrhythmias)
    * A heart attack
    * Heart failure 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Seek medical attention if you have new, unexplained chest pain or pressure. If
you have had angina before, call your provider.

Call 911 if your angina pain:

    * Is not better 5 minutes after you take nitroglycerin (your provider may tell you to take 3 total doses)
    * Does not go away after 3 doses of nitroglycerin
    * Is getting worse
    * Returns after the nitroglycerin helped at first 

Call your provider if:

    * You are having angina symptoms more often
    * You are having angina when you are sitting (rest angina)
    * You are feeling tired more often
    * You are feeling faint or lightheaded, or you pass out
    * Your heart is beating very slowly (less than 60 beats a minute) or very fast (more than 120 beats a minute), or it is not steady
    * You are having trouble taking your heart medicines
    * You have any other unusual symptoms 

If you think you are having a heart attack, get medical treatment right away.

## Prevention

Some studies have shown that making a few lifestyle changes can prevent
blockages from getting worse and may actually improve them. Lifestyle changes
can also help prevent some angina attacks. Your provider may tell you to:

    * Lose weight if you are overweight
    * Stop smoking
    * Exercise regularly
    * Drink alcohol in moderation only
    * Eat a healthy diet that is high in vegetables, fruits, whole grains, fish, and lean meats 

Your provider will also recommend that you keep other health conditions such
as high blood pressure, diabetes, and high cholesterol levels under control.

If you have one or more risk factors for heart disease, talk to your provider
about taking aspirin or other medicines to help prevent a heart attack.
Aspirin therapy (75 to 325 mg a day) or drugs such as clopidogrel, ticagrelor
or prasugrel may help prevent heart attacks in some people. Aspirin and other
blood thinning therapies are recommended if the benefit is likely to outweigh
the risk of side effects.

## Alternative Names

Accelerating angina; New-onset angina; Angina - unstable; Progressive angina;
CAD - unstable angina; Coronary artery disease - unstable angina; Heart
disease - unstable angina; Chest pain - unstable angina

## Patient Instructions

    * Angina - discharge
    * Angina - what to ask your doctor 
    * Angina - when you have chest pain
    * Angioplasty and stent - heart - discharge 
    * Heart attack - discharge
    * Heart attack - what to ask your doctor

## Images

    * ![Angina](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18048t.jpg)Angina
    * ![Coronary artery balloon angioplasty - Series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19001t.jpg)Coronary artery balloon angioplasty - series

## References

Amsterdam EA, Wenger NK, Brindis RG, et al. 2014 AHA/ACC guideline for the
management of patients with non-ST-elevation acute coronary syndromes: a
report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task
Force on Practice Guidelines. _J Am Coll Cardiol._ 2014;64(24):e139-e228.
PMID: 25260718 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25260718.

Arnett DK, Blumenthal RS, Albert MA, et al. 2019 ACC/AHA Guideline on the
primary prevention of cardiovascular disease. _Circulation._ 2019 [Epub ahead
of print] PMID: 30879355 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30879355.

Bonaca MP. Sabatine MS. The approach to the patient with chest pain. In: Zipes
DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's
Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine._ 11th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 56.

Giugliano RP, Braunwald E. Non-ST elevation acute coronary syndromes. In:
Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds.
_Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine._ 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 60.

Ibanez B, James S, Agewall S, et al. 2017 ESC Guidelines for the management of
acute myocardial infarction in patients presenting with ST-segment elevation:
The Task Force for the management of acute myocardial infarction in patients
presenting with ST-segment elevation of the European Society of Cardiology
(ESC). _Eur Heart J._ 2018;39(2):119-177. PMID: 28886621
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28886621.

Jang JS, Spertus JA, Arnold SV, et al. Impact of multivessel revascularization
on health status outcomes in patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial
infarction and multivessel coronary artery disease. _J Am Coll Cardiol._
2015;66(19):2104-2113. PMID: 26541921 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26541921.

Lange RA, Hillis LD. Acute coronary syndrome: unstable angina and non-ST
elevation myocardial infarction. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine._ 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 72.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Internal review and update on 03/28/2019 by David
Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Angina](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Angina_thumb.jpg)Angina _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

