Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003505.htm    
                                Description: Apolipoprotein CII (apoCII) is a protein found in large fat particles that the gastrointestinal tract absorbs. It is also found in very low density lipoprotein (VLDL), which is made up of mostly triglycerides    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Apolipoprotein CII

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003505.htm

# Apolipoprotein CII

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Apolipoprotein CII (apoCII) is a protein found in large fat particles that the
gastrointestinal tract absorbs. It is also found in very low density
lipoprotein (VLDL), which is made up of mostly triglycerides (a type of fat in
your blood).

This article discusses the test used to check for apoCII in a sample of your
blood.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You may be told not to eat or drink anything for 4 to 6 hours before the test.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, you may feel some pain, or only a
prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing where the needle was
inserted.

![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/10026.jpg)

## Why the Test is Performed

ApoCII measurements can help determine the type or cause of high blood fats.
It is not clear whether the test results improve treatment. Because of this,
most health insurance companies will not pay for the test. If you DO NOT have
high cholesterol or heart disease or a family history of these conditions,
this test may not be recommended for you.

## Normal Results

The normal range is 3 to 5 mg/dL. However, apoCII results are usually reported
as present or absent.

The examples above are common measurements for results of these tests. Normal
value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs use
different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your doctor about
the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

High levels of apoCII may be due to a family history of lipoprotein lipase
deficiency. This is a condition in which the body does not break down fats
normally.

ApoCII levels are also seen in people with a rare condition called familial
apoprotein CII deficiency. This causes chylomicronemia syndrome, another
condition in which the body does not break down fats normally.

## Risks

Risks associated with having blood drawn are slight but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

## Considerations

Apolipoprotein measurements may provide more detail about your risk for heart
disease, but the added value of this test beyond a lipid panel is unknown.

## Alternative Names

ApoCII; Apoprotein CII; ApoC2; Lipoprotein lipase deficiency - apolipoprotein
CII; Chylomicronemia syndrome - apolipoprotein CII

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Genest J, Libby P. Lipoprotein disorders and cardiovascular disease. In: Zipes
DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's
Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2018:chap 48.

Remaley AT, Dayspring TD, Warnick GR. Lipids, lipoproteins, apolipoproteins,
and other cardiovascular risk factors. In: Rifai N, ed. _Tietz Textbook of
Clinical Chemistry and Molecular Diagnostics_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier;
2018:chap 34.

Semenkovich, CF. Disorders of lipid metabolism. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI,
eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 206.

## Review Date 5/16/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Angina](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Angina_thumb.jpg)Angina _Read more_

![Cholesterol](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cholesterol2_thumb.jpg)Cholesterol
_Read more_

![Heart Attack](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartAttack_thumb.jpg)Heart
Attack _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

