Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003502.htm    
                                Description: Apolipoprotein B100 (apoB100) is a protein that plays a role in moving cholesterol around your body. It is a form of low density lipoprotein (LDL).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Apolipoprotein B100

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003502.htm

# Apolipoprotein B100

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Apolipoprotein B100 (apoB100) is a protein that plays a role in moving
cholesterol around your body. It is a form of low density lipoprotein (LDL).

Mutations (changes) in apoB100 can cause a condition called familial
hypercholesterolemia. This is a form of high cholesterol that is passed down
in families (inherited).

This article discusses the test used to measure the level of apoB100 in the
blood.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Your health care provider may tell you not to eat or drink anything for 4 to 6
hours before the test.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, you may feel moderate pain, or only
a prick or stinging sensation. Afterward, there may be some throbbing.

![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/10026.jpg)

## Why the Test is Performed

Most often, this test is done to help determine the cause or specific type of
high blood cholesterol. It is not clear whether the information helps improve
treatment. Because of this, most health insurance companies DO NOT pay for the
test. If you DO NOT have a diagnosis of high cholesterol or heart disease,
this test may not be recommended for you.

## Normal Results

The normal range is about 50 to 150 mg/dL.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some
laboratories use different measurements or may test different specimens. Talk
to your provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An abnormal result may mean you have high lipid (fat) levels in your blood. A
medical term for this is hyperlipidemia.

Other disorders that may be associated with high apoB100 levels include
atherosclerotic vascular disease such as angina pectoris (chest pain that
occurs with activity or stress) and heart attack.

## Risks

Risks linked with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Hematoma (blood buildup under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins 

## Considerations

Apolipoprotein measurements may provide more detail about your risk for heart
disease, but the added value of this test beyond a lipid panel is unknown.

## Alternative Names

ApoB100; Apoprotein B100; Hypercholesterolemia - apolipoprotein B100

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Fazio S, Linton MF. Regulation and clearance of apolipoprotein B-containing
lipoproteins. In: Ballantyne CM, ed. _Clinical Lipidology: A Companion to
Braunwald's Heart Disease_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2015:chap 2.

Genest J, Libby P. Lipoprotein disorders and cardiovascular disease. In: Zipes
DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's
Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2018:chap 48.

Semenkovich, CF. Disorders of lipid metabolism. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI,
eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 206.

## Review Date 5/16/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Angina](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Angina_thumb.jpg)Angina _Read more_

![Cholesterol](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cholesterol2_thumb.jpg)Cholesterol
_Read more_

![Heart Attack](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartAttack_thumb.jpg)Heart
Attack _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

