Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000207.htm    
                                Description: Angina is pain or pressure in the chest that happens when your heart muscle is not getting enough blood and oxygen.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Angina - what to ask your doctor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000207.htm

# Angina - what to ask your doctor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Angina is pain or pressure in the chest that happens when your heart muscle is
not getting enough blood and oxygen.

You sometimes feel it in your neck or jaw. Sometimes you may notice only that
your breath is short.

Below are some questions you may want to ask your health care provider to help
you take care of your angina.

## Questions

What are the signs and symptoms that I am having angina? Will I always have
the same symptoms?

    * What are the activities that can cause me to have angina?
    * How should I treat my chest pain, or angina, when it happens?
    * When should I call the doctor?
    * When should I call 911? 

How much exercise or activity can I do?

    * Do I need to have a stress test first?
    * Is it safe for me to exercise on my own?
    * Where should I exercise, inside or outside? Which activities are better to start with? Are there activities or exercises that are not safe for me?
    * How long and how hard can I exercise? 

When can I return to work? Are there limits to what I can do at work?

What should I do if I feel sad or very worried about my heart disease?

How can I change the way I live to make my heart stronger?

    * What is a heart-healthy diet? Is it OK to ever eat something that is not heart healthy? What are some ways to eat healthy when I go to a restaurant?
    * Is it OK to drink any alcohol?
    * Is it OK to be around other people who are smoking?
    * Is my blood pressure normal?
    * What is my cholesterol and do I need to take medicines for it? 

Is it OK to be sexually active? Is it safe to use sildenafil (Viagra),
vardenafil (Levitra), or tadalafil (Cialis)?

What medicines am I taking to treat or prevent angina?

    * Do they have any side effects?
    * What should I do if I miss a dose?
    * Is it ever safe to stop any of these medicines on my own? 

If I am taking aspirin, clopidogrel (Plavix), ticagrelor (Brilinta), prasugrel
(Effient), or another blood thinner, is it OK to take ibuprofen (Advil,
Motrin), naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn), or other pain medicines?

It is OK to take omeprazole (Prilosec) or other medicines for heartburn?

## Alternative Names

What to ask your doctor about angina and heart disease; Coronary artery
disease - what to ask your doctor

## References

Amsterdam EA, Wenger NK, Brindis RG, et al. 2014 AHA/ACC guideline for the
management of patients with non-ST-elevation acute coronary syndromes: a
report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task
Force on practice guidelines. _J Am Coll Cardiol_. 2014;64(24):e139-e228.
PMID: 25260718 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25260718.

Bonaca MP, Sabatine MS. Approach to the patient with chest pain. In: Zipes DP,
Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart
Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2019:chap 56.

Fihn SD, Gardin JM, Abrams J, et al. 2012 ACCF/AHA/ACP/AATS/PCNA/SCAI/STS
guideline for the diagnosis and management of patients with stable ischemic
heart disease: a report of the American College of Cardiology
Foundation/American Heart Association task force on practice guidelines, and
the American College of Physicians, American Association for Thoracic Surgery,
Preventive Cardiovascular Nurses Association, Society for Cardiovascular
Angiography and Interventions, and Society of Thoracic Surgeons.
_Circulation_. 2012;126(25):e354-e471. PMID: 23166211
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23166211.

OâGara PT, Kushner FG, Ascheim DD, et al. 2013 ACCF/AHA guideline for the
management of ST-elevation myocardial infarction: executive summary: a report
of the American College of Cardiology Foundation/American Heart Association
Task Force on practice guidelines. _Circulation_. 2013;127(4):529-555. PMID:
23247303 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23247303.

## Read More

    * Angioplasty and stent placement - carotid artery
    * Chest pain
    * Coronary artery spasm
    * Heart bypass surgery
    * Heart bypass surgery - minimally invasive
    * Heart pacemaker
    * Stable angina
    * Tips on how to quit smoking
    * Unstable angina

## Patient Instructions

    * Angina - discharge
    * Angina - when you have chest pain
    * Angioplasty and stent - heart - discharge 
    * Aspirin and heart disease
    * Being active when you have heart disease
    * Cardiac catheterization - discharge 
    * Cholesterol and lifestyle
    * Cholesterol - drug treatment
    * Heart bypass surgery - discharge
    * Heart bypass surgery - minimally invasive - discharge

## Review Date 7/25/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Angina

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

