Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000088.htm    
                                Description: Angina is a type of chest discomfort due to poor blood flow through the blood vessels of the heart muscle. This article discusses how to care for yourself when you have angina.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Angina - when you have chest pain

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000088.htm

# Angina - when you have chest pain

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Angina is a type of chest discomfort due to poor blood flow through the blood
vessels of the heart muscle. This article discusses how to care for yourself
when you have angina.

## Signs and Symptoms of Angina

You may feel pressure, squeezing, burning, or tightness in your chest. You may
also have pressure, squeezing, burning, or tightness in your arms, shoulders,
neck, jaw, throat, or back.

Some people may have different symptoms, including shortness of breath,
fatigue, weakness, and back, arm, or neck pain. This applies particularly to
women, older people, and people with diabetes.

You may also have indigestion or be sick to your stomach. You may feel tired.
You may be short of breath, sweaty, lightheaded, or weak.

Some people have angina when they are exposed to cold weather. People also
feel it during physical activity. Examples are climbing stairs, walking
uphill, lifting something heavy, or having sex.

## How to Treat Your Chest Pain

Sit, stay calm, and rest. Your symptoms will often go away soon after you stop
activity.

If you are lying down, sit up in bed. Try deep breathing to help with the
stress or anxiety.

If you do not have nitroglycerin and your symptoms are not gone after resting
for 5 minutes, call 9-1-1 right away.

Your health care provider may have prescribed nitroglycerin tablets or spray
for severe attacks. Sit or lie down when you use your tablets or spray.

When using your tablet, place the pill between your cheek and gum. You can
also put it under your tongue. Allow it to dissolve. DO NOT swallow it.

When using your spray, do not shake the container. Hold the container close to
your open mouth. Spray the medicine onto or under your tongue. DO NOT inhale
or swallow the medicine.

Wait for 5 minutes after the first dose of nitroglycerin. If your symptoms are
not better, are worse, or return after going away, call 9-1-1 right away. The
operator who answers will give you further advice about what to do.

(Note: your provider may have given you different advice about taking
nitroglycerin when you have chest pain or pressure. Some people will be told
to try 3 nitroglycerin doses 5 minutes apart before calling 9-1-1.)

DO NOT smoke, eat, or drink for 5 to 10 minutes after taking nitroglycerin. If
you do smoke, you should try to quit. Your provider can help.

## Know Your Risk Factors

After your symptoms have gone away, write down a few details about the event.
Write down:

    * What time of day the event took place
    * What you were doing at the time
    * How long the pain lasted
    * What the pain felt like
    * What you did to relieve your pain

Ask yourself some questions:

    * Did you take all of your regular heart medicines the right way before you had symptoms?
    * Were you more active than normal?
    * Did you just have a large meal?

Share this information with your provider at your regular visits.

Try not to do activities that strain your heart. Your provider may prescribe
medicine for you to take before an activity. This can prevent symptoms.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call 9-1-1 if your angina pain:

    * Is not better 5 minutes after taking nitroglycerin
    * Does not go away after 3 doses of the medicine (or as directed by your provider)
    * Is getting worse
    * Returns after the medicine had helped 

Also call your provider if:

    * You are having symptoms more often.
    * You are having angina when you are sitting quietly or are not active. This is called rest angina.
    * You are feeling tired more often.
    * You are feeling faint or lightheaded.
    * Your heart is beating very slowly (less than 60 beats a minute) or very fast (more than 120 beats a minute), or it is not steady.
    * You are having trouble taking your heart medicines.
    * You have any other unusual symptoms. 

## Alternative Names

Acute coronary syndrome - chest pain; Coronary artery disease - chest pain;
CAD - chest pain; Coronary heart disease - chest pain; ACS - chest pain; Heart
attack - chest pain; Myocardial infarction - chest pain; MI - chest pain

## References

Amsterdam EA, Wenger NK, Brindis RG, et al. 2014 AHA/ACC guideline for the
management of patients with non-ST-elevation acute coronary syndromes: a
report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task
Force on practice guidelines. _J Am Coll Cardiol_. 2014;64(24):e139-e228.
PMID: 25260718 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25260718.

Boden WE. Angina pectoris and stable ischemic heart disease. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 71.

Bonaca MP, Sabatine MS. Approach to the patient with chest pain. In: Zipes DP,
Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart
Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2019:chap 56.

Fihn SD, Gardin JM, Abrams J, et al. 2012 ACCF/AHA/ACP/AATS/PCNA/SCAI/STS
guideline for the diagnosis and management of patients with stable ischemic
heart disease: a report of the American College of Cardiology
Foundation/American Heart Association Task Force on practice guidelines, and
the American College of Physicians, American Association for Thoracic Surgery,
Preventive Cardiovascular Nurses Association, Society for Cardiovascular
Angiography and Interventions, and Society of Thoracic Surgeons.
_Circulation_. 2012;126(25):e354-e471. PMID: 23166211
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23166211.

O'Gara PT, Kushner FG, Ascheim DD, et al. 2013 ACCF/AHA guideline for the
management of ST-elevation myocardial infarction: executive summary: a report
of the American College of Cardiology Foundation/American Heart Association
Task Force on practice guidelines. _Circulation_. 2013;127(4):529-555. PMID:
23247303 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23247303.

## Read More

    * Angioplasty and stent placement - carotid artery
    * Cardiac ablation procedures 
    * Chest pain
    * Coronary artery spasm
    * Heart bypass surgery
    * Heart bypass surgery - minimally invasive
    * Heart pacemaker
    * Implantable cardioverter-defibrillator
    * Stable angina
    * Unstable angina

## Patient Instructions

    * Angina - discharge
    * Angina - what to ask your doctor 
    * Angioplasty and stent - heart - discharge 
    * Aspirin and heart disease
    * Being active when you have heart disease
    * Cardiac catheterization - discharge 
    * Heart attack - discharge
    * Heart bypass surgery - discharge
    * Heart bypass surgery - minimally invasive - discharge
    * Heart failure - discharge

## Review Date 7/25/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Angina

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

