Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000198.htm    
                                Description: Stable angina is chest pain or discomfort that most often occurs with activity or emotional stress. Angina is due to poor blood flow through the blood vessels in the heart.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Stable angina

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000198.htm

# Stable angina

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Stable angina is chest pain or discomfort that most often occurs with activity
or emotional stress. Angina is due to poor blood flow through the blood
vessels in the heart.

## Causes

Your heart muscle needs a constant supply of oxygen. The coronary arteries
carry oxygen-rich blood to the heart.

When the heart muscle has to work harder, it needs more oxygen. Symptoms of
angina occur when blood supply to heart muscle is reduced. This happens when
the coronary arteries are narrowed or blocked by atherosclerosis or by a blood
clot.

The most common cause of angina is coronary artery disease. Angina pectoris is
the medical term for this type of chest pain.

![Stable angina](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/18054.jpg)

Stable angina is less serious than unstable angina, but it can be very painful
or uncomfortable.

There are many risk factors for coronary artery disease. Some include:

    * Diabetes
    * High blood pressure
    * High LDL cholesterol
    * Low HDL cholesterol
    * Sedentary lifestyle
    * Smoking
    * Advancing age
    * Male gender 

Anything that makes the heart muscle need more oxygen or reduces the amount of
oxygen it receives can cause an angina attack in someone with heart disease,
including:

    * Cold weather
    * Exercise
    * Emotional stress
    * Large meals 

Other causes of angina include:

    * Abnormal heart rhythms (your heart beats very quickly or your heart rhythm is not regular)
    * Anemia
    * Coronary artery spasm (also called Prinzmetal angina)
    * Heart failure
    * Heart valve disease
    * Hyperthyroidism (overactive thyroid) 

## Symptoms

Symptoms of stable angina are most often predictable. This means that the same
amount of exercise or activity may cause your angina to occur. Your angina
should improve or go away when you stop or slow down the exercise.

The most common symptom is chest pain that occurs behind the breastbone or
slightly to the left of it. The pain of stable angina most often begins slowly
and gets worse over the next few minutes before going away.

Typically, the chest pain feels like tightness, heavy pressure, squeezing, or
a crushing feeling. It may spread to the:

    * Arm (most often the left)
    * Back
    * Jaw
    * Neck
    * Shoulder

Some people say the pain feels like gas or indigestion.

Less common symptoms of angina may include:

    * Fatigue
    * Shortness of breath
    * Weakness
    * Dizziness or lightheadedness
    * Nausea, vomiting, and sweating
    * Palpitations

Pain from stable angina:

    * Most often comes on with activity or stress
    * Lasts an average of 1 to 15 minutes
    * Is relieved with rest or a medicine called nitroglycerin

Angina attacks can occur at any time during the day. Often, they occur between
6 a.m. and noon.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will examine you and check your blood pressure.
Tests that may be done include:

    * Coronary angiography
    * Blood cholesterol profile
    * ECG
    * Exercise tolerance test (stress test or treadmill test)
    * Nuclear medicine (thallium) stress test
    * Stress echocardiogram
    * Heart CT scan

## Treatment

Treatment for angina may include:

    * Lifestyle changes
    * Medicines
    * Procedures such as coronary angiography with stent placement
    * Coronary artery bypass surgery 

If you have angina, you and your provider will develop a daily treatment plan.
This plan should include:

    * Medicines you regularly take to prevent angina
    * Activities that you can do and those you should avoid
    * Medicines you should take when you have angina pain
    * Signs that mean your angina is getting worse
    * When you should call the doctor or get emergency medical help 

MEDICINES

You may need to take one or more medicines to treat blood pressure, diabetes,
or high cholesterol levels. Follow your provider's directions closely to help
prevent your angina from getting worse.

Nitroglycerin pills or spray may be used to stop chest pain.

Anti-clotting drugs such as aspirin and clopidogrel (Plavix), ticagrelor
(Brilinta) or prasugrel (Effient) can help prevent blood clots from forming in
your arteries, and reduce the risk of heart attack. Ask your provider if you
should be taking these medicines.

You may need to take more medicines to help prevent you from having angina.
These include:

    * ACE inhibitors to lower blood pressure and protect your heart
    * Beta-blockers to lower heart rate, blood pressure, and oxygen use by the heart
    * Calcium channel blockers to relax arteries, lower blood pressure, and reduce strain on the heart
    * Nitrates to help prevent angina
    * Ranolazine (Ranexa) to treat chronic angina 

**NEVER STOP TAKING ANY OF THESE DRUGS ON YOUR OWN.** Always talk to your
provider first. Stopping these drugs suddenly can make your angina worse or
cause a heart attack. This is especially true for anti-clotting drugs
(aspirin, clopidogrel, ticagrelor and prasugrel).

Your provider may recommend a cardiac rehabilitation program to help improve
your heartâs fitness.

SURGICAL TREATMENT

Some people will be able to control angina with medicines and not need
surgery. Others will need a procedure called angioplasty and stent placement
(also called percutaneous coronary intervention) to open blocked or narrowed
arteries that supply blood to the heart.

Blockages that cannot be treated with angioplasty may need heart bypass
surgery to redirect blood flow around the narrowed or blocked blood vessels.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Stable angina most often improves when taking medicines.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Get medical help right away if you have new, unexplained chest pain or
pressure. If you have had angina before, call your provider.

Call 911 if your angina pain:

    * Is not better 5 minutes after you take nitroglycerin
    * Does not go away after 3 doses of nitroglycerin
    * Is getting worse
    * Returns after the nitroglycerin helped at first 

Call your provider if:

    * You are having angina symptoms more often
    * You are having angina when you are sitting (rest angina)
    * You are feeling tired more often
    * You are feeling faint or lightheaded
    * Your heart is beating very slowly (less than 60 beats a minute) or very fast (more than 120 beats a minute), or it is not steady (regular)
    * You are having trouble taking your heart medicines
    * You have any other unusual symptoms 

Get medical help right away if a person with angina loses consciousness
(passes out).

## Prevention

A risk factor is something about you that increases your chance of getting a
disease or having a certain health condition.

Some risk factors for heart disease you cannot change, but some you can.
Changing the risk factors that you can control will help you live a longer,
healthier life.

## Alternative Names

Angina - stable; Angina - chronic; Angina pectoris; Chest pain - angina; CAD -
angina; Coronary artery disease - angina; Heart disease - angina

## Patient Instructions

    * Angina - discharge
    * Angina - what to ask your doctor 
    * Angina - when you have chest pain
    * Heart attack - what to ask your doctor

## Images

    * ![Heart - front view](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1097t.jpg)Heart - front view
    * ![Stable angina](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18054t.jpg)Stable angina

## References

Arnett DK, Blumenthal RS, Albert MA, et al. 2019 ACC/AHA guideline on the
primary prevention of cardiovascular disease. _Circulation._ 2019 [Epub ahead
of print] PMID: 30879355 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30879355.

Boden WE. Angina pectoris and stable ischemic heart disease. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 71.

Bonaca MP. Sabatine MS. The approach to the patient with chest pain. In: Zipes
DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's
Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine._ 11th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 56.

Fihn SD, Blankenship JC, Alexander KP, et al. 2014 ACC/AHA/AATS/PCNA/SCAI/STS
focused update of the guideline for the diagnosis and management of patients
with stable ischemic heart disease: a report of the American College of
Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines, and
the American Association for Thoracic Surgery, Preventive Cardiovascular
Nurses Association, Society for Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions,
and Society of Thoracic Surgeons. _J Am Coll Cardiol_. 2014;64(18):1929-1949.
PMID: 25077860 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25077860.

Morrow DA, de Lemos JA.. Stable ischemic heart disease. In: Zipes DP, Libby P,
Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease:
A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 61.

Whelton PK, Carey RM, Aronow WS, et al. 2017
ACC/AHA/AAPA/ABC/ACPM/AGS/APhA/ASH/ASPC/NMA/PCNA guideline for the prevention,
detection, evaluation, and management of high blood pressure in adults:
executive summary: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American
Heart Association Task Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines. _J Am Coll
Cardiol_. 2018;71(19)2199-2269. PMID: 29146533
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29146533.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Internal review and update on 03/28/2019 by David
Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Angina](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Angina_thumb.jpg)Angina _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

