Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000089.htm    
                                Description: Angina is a type of chest discomfort due to poor blood flow through the blood vessels of the heart muscle. This article discusses how to care for yourself when you leave the hospital.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Angina - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000089.htm

# Angina - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Angina is a type of chest discomfort due to poor blood flow through the blood
vessels of the heart muscle. This article discusses how to care for yourself
when you leave the hospital.

## When You're in the Hospital

You were having angina. Angina is chest pain, chest pressure, often associated
with shortness of breath. You had this problem when your heart was not getting
enough blood and oxygen. You may not have had a heart attack.

## What to Expect at Home

You may feel sad. You may feel anxious and that you have to be very careful
about what you do. All of these feelings are normal. They go away for most
people after 2 or 3 weeks.

You may also feel tired when you leave the hospital. You should feel better
and have more energy 5 weeks after you are discharged from the hospital.

## Activity

Know the signs and symptoms of angina:

    * You may feel pressure, squeezing, burning, or tightness in your chest. You may also have pressure, squeezing, burning, or tightness in your arms, shoulders, neck, jaw, throat, or back.
    * Some people may feel discomfort in their back, shoulders, and stomach area.
    * You may have indigestion or feel sick to your stomach. You may feel tired and be short of breath, sweaty, lightheaded, or weak. You may have these symptoms during physical activity, such as climbing stairs, walking uphill, lifting, and engaging in sexual activity.
    * You may have symptoms more often in cold weather. You can also have symptoms when you are resting, or when wake you up from your sleep. 

Ask your health care provider how to treat your chest pain when it happens.

Take it easy at first. You should be able to talk easily when you are doing
any activity. If you cannot, stop the activity.

Ask your provider about returning to work. You may need to work less, at least
for a while. If heavy lifting or hard manual labor is part of your job, you
may need to change the kind of work you do.

Your provider may refer you to a cardiac rehabilitation program. This will
help you learn how to slowly increase your exercise. You will also learn how
to take care of your heart disease.

## Diet and lifestyle

Try to limit how much alcohol you drink. Ask your provider when it is OK to
drink, and how much is safe.

DO NOT smoke cigarettes. If you do smoke, ask your provider for help quitting.
DO NOT let anyone smoke in your home.

Learn more about what you should eat for a healthier heart and blood vessels.
Avoid salty and fatty foods. Stay away from fast-food restaurants. Your
provider can refer you to a dietitian, who can help you plan a healthy diet.

![Healthy diet](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19492.jpg)

Try to avoid stressful situations. If you feel stressed or sad, tell your
provider. They can refer you to a counselor.

Ask your provider about sexual activity. Men should not take medicines or any
herbal supplements for erection problems without checking with their provider
first. These drugs are not safe when used with nitroglycerin.

## Taking your heart drugs

Have all of your prescriptions filled before you go home. You should take your
drugs the way you have been told. Ask your provider if you can still take
other prescription drugs, herbs, or supplements you have been taking.

Take your drugs with water or juice. DO NOT drink grapefruit juice (or eat
grapefruit), since these foods may change how your body absorbs certain
medicines. Ask your provider or pharmacist about this.

People who have angina often receive the drugs below. But sometimes these
drugs may not be safe to take. Talk with your provider if you are not already
taking one of these drugs:

    * Antiplatelet drugs (blood thinners), such as aspirin, clopidogrel (Plavix), prasugrel (Efient), or ticagrelor (Brilinta)
    * Other medicines, such as warfarin (Coumadin), to help keep your blood from clotting
    * Beta-blockers and ACE inhibitor medicines, to help protect your heart
    * Statins or other drugs to lower your cholesterol

Never just stop taking any of these drugs. DO NOT stop taking any other drugs
you may be taking for diabetes, high blood pressure, or any other medical
problems.

If you are taking a blood thinner, you may need to have extra blood tests to
make sure your dose is correct.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if you feel:

    * Pain, pressure, tightness, or heaviness in the chest, arm, neck, or jaw
    * Shortness of breath
    * Gas pains or indigestion
    * Numbness in your arms
    * Sweaty, or if you lose color
    * Lightheaded

Changes in your angina may mean your heart disease is getting worse. Call your
provider if your angina:

    * Becomes stronger
    * Occurs more often
    * Lasts longer
    * Occurs when you are not active or when you are resting
    * If drugs do not help ease your angina symptoms as well as they used to

## Alternative Names

Chest pain - discharge; Stable angina - discharge; Chronic angina - discharge;
Variant angina - discharge; Angina pectoris - discharge; Accelerating angina -
discharge; New-onset angina - discharge; Angina-unstable - discharge;
Progressive angina - discharge; Angina-stable - discharge; Angina-chronic -
discharge; Angina-variant - discharge; Prinzmetal angina - discharge

## Images

    * ![Healthy diet](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19492t.jpg)Healthy diet

## References

Amsterdam EA, Wenger NK, Brindis RG, et al. 2014 AHA/ACC guideline for the
management of patients with non-ST-elevation acute coronary syndromes: a
report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task
Force on practice guidelines. _J Am Coll Cardiol_. 2014;64(24):e139-e228.
PMID: 25260718 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25260718.

Boden WE. Angina pectoris and stable ischemic heart disease. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 71.

Bonaca MP, Sabatine MS. Approach to the patient with chest pain. In: Zipes DP,
Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart
Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2019:chap 56.

Fihn SD, Gardin JM, Abrams J, et al. 2012 ACCF/AHA/ACP/AATS/PCNA/SCAI/STS
guideline for the diagnosis and management of patients with stable ischemic
heart disease: a report of the American College of Cardiology
Foundation/American Heart Association task force on practice guidelines, and
the American College of Physicians, American Association for Thoracic Surgery,
Preventive Cardiovascular Nurses Association, Society for Cardiovascular
Angiography and Interventions, and Society of Thoracic Surgeons.
_Circulation_. 2012;126(25):e354-e471. PMID: 23166211
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23166211.

O'Gara PT, Kushner FG, Ascheim DD, et al. 2013 ACCF/AHA guideline for the
management of ST-elevation myocardial infarction: executive summary: a report
of the American College of Cardiology Foundation/American Heart Association
Task Force on practice guidelines. _Circulation_. 2013;127(4):e362-e425. PMID:
23247303 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23247303.

## Read More

    * Angina
    * Angioplasty and stent placement - carotid artery
    * Cardiac ablation procedures 
    * Chest pain
    * Coronary artery spasm
    * Heart bypass surgery
    * Heart bypass surgery - minimally invasive
    * Heart pacemaker
    * High blood cholesterol levels
    * Implantable cardioverter-defibrillator
    * Stable angina
    * Tips on how to quit smoking
    * Unstable angina
    * Ventricular assist device

## Patient Instructions

    * ACE inhibitors
    * Angina - what to ask your doctor 
    * Angina - when you have chest pain
    * Angioplasty and stent - heart - discharge 
    * Antiplatelet drugs - P2Y12 inhibitors
    * Aspirin and heart disease
    * Being active after your heart attack
    * Being active when you have heart disease
    * Butter, margarine, and cooking oils
    * Cardiac catheterization - discharge 
    * Cholesterol and lifestyle
    * Cholesterol - drug treatment
    * Controlling your high blood pressure
    * Dietary fats explained
    * Fast food tips
    * Heart attack - discharge
    * Heart attack - what to ask your doctor
    * Heart bypass surgery - discharge
    * Heart bypass surgery - minimally invasive - discharge
    * Heart disease - risk factors
    * High blood pressure - what to ask your doctor 
    * How to read food labels
    * Mediterranean diet

## Review Date 7/25/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Angina

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

