Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000396.htm    
                                Description: You have seen your health care provider for erection problems. You may get a partial erection that is insufficient for intercourse or you may be unable to get an erection at all. Or you may prematurely    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Erection problems - aftercare

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000396.htm

# Erection problems - aftercare

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You have seen your health care provider for erection problems. You may get a
partial erection that is insufficient for intercourse or you may be unable to
get an erection at all. Or you may prematurely lose the erection during
intercourse. If the condition persists, the medical term for this problem is
erectile dysfunction (ED).

Erection problems are common in adult men. In fact, almost all men have a
problem getting or maintaining an erection at times.

## Lifestyle

For many men, lifestyle changes can help with ED. For example, alcohol and
illegal drugs may make you feel more relaxed. But they can cause ED or make it
worse. Avoid illegal drugs, and consider limiting the amount of alcohol you
drink.

Smoking and smokeless tobacco can cause narrowing of blood vessels all over
the body, including those that supply blood to the penis. Talk to your
provider about quitting.

Other lifestyle tips include:

    * Get plenty of rest and take time to relax.
    * Exercise and eat healthy foods to maintain good circulation.
    * Use safe sex practices. Reducing your worry about STDs may help prevent negative emotions that can affect your erection.
    * Talk with your provider and review your daily prescription medicine list. Many prescription medicines can cause or worsen ED. Some medicines you need to take for other medical conditions could add to ED, like medicines for high blood pressure or migraine medicines.

## Talking With Your Partner

Having ED can make you feel bad about yourself. This can make it even more
difficult to seek treatment and enjoy sexual activity.

ED can be a troubling issue for couples, because it can be difficult for you
or your partner to discuss the problem with each other. Couples who do not
openly talk to each other are more likely to have problems with sexual
intimacy. Likewise, men who have trouble talking about their feelings may be
unable to share their sexual concerns with their partners.

If you have trouble communicating, counseling can be very helpful for you and
your partner. Finding a way for both of you to express your feelings and
desires, and then work on the issues together, can make a big difference.

## Medicines, Herbs, and Supplements

Sildenafil (Viagra), vardenafil (Levitra, Staxyn), tadalafil (Cialis), and
avanafil (Stendra) are oral medicines prescribed for ED. They cause erections
only when you are sexually aroused.

    * The effect is most often seen within 15 to 45 minutes. The effects of these drugs may last for several hours. Tadalafil (Cialis) may last for up to 36 hours.
    * Sildenafil (Viagra) should be taken on an empty stomach. (Levitra) and tadalafil (Cialis) may be taken with or without food.
    * These drugs should not be used more than once a day.
    * Common side effects of these medicines include flushing, upset stomach, headache, nasal congestion, back pain, and dizziness. 

Other ED medicines include drugs that are injected into the penis and tablets
that can be inserted into the opening of the urethra. Your provider will teach
you how to use these treatments if they are prescribed.

If you have heart disease, talk with your provider before using these
medicines. Men who take nitrates for heart disease should not take ED
medicines.

Many herbs and dietary supplements are marketed to help sexual performance or
desire. None of these remedies have been proven effective for treating ED.
Talk to your provider to see if any of these treatments is right for you.
Treatment options other than medicines are available if medicines do not work
for you. Talk to your provider about these treatments.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider right away or go to an emergency room if any ED medicine
gives you an erection that lasts more than 4 hours. If this problem is not
treated, you may suffer lasting damage to your penis.

To end an erection you may try to repeat climax and apply a cold pack to your
genitalia (wrap the pack in a cloth first). Never go to sleep with an
erection.

## Alternative Names

Erectile dysfunction - self-care

## Images

    * ![Impotence and age](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9452t.jpg)Impotence and age

## References

Berookhim BM, Mulhall JP. Erectile dysfunction. In: Sidawy AN, Perler BA, eds.
_Rutherford's Vascular Surgery and Endovascular Therapy_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 191.

Burnett AL, Nehra A, Breau RH, et al. Erectile dysfunction: AUA guideline. _J
Urol_. 2018;200(3):633-641. PMID: 29746858
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29746858.

Burnett AL. Evaluation and management of erectile dysfunction. In: Wein AJ,
Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 27.

Zagoria RJ, Dyer R, Brady C. The male genital tract. In: Zagoria RJ, Dyer R,
Brady C, eds. _Genitourinary Imaging: The Requisites_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 8.

## Review Date 7/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Erectile Dysfunction

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

