Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/004024.htm    
                                Description: Many medicines and recreational drugs can affect a man    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Drugs that may cause erection problems

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/004024.htm

# Drugs that may cause erection problems

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Many medicines and recreational drugs can affect a man's sexual arousal and
sexual performance. What causes erection problems in one man may not affect
another man.

Talk to your health care provider if you think that a drug is having a
negative effect on your sexual performance. Never stop taking any medicine
without first talking to your provider. Some medicines may lead to life-
threatening reactions if you do not take care when stopping or changing them.

The following is a list of some medicines and drugs that may cause erectile
dysfunction (ED) in men. There may be additional drugs other than those on
this list that can cause erection difficulties.

Antidepressants and other psychiatric medicines:

    * Amitriptyline (Elavil)
    * Amoxapine (Asendin)
    * Buspirone (Buspar)
    * Chlordiazepoxide (Librium)
    * Chlorpromazine (Thorazine)
    * Clomipramine (Anafranil)
    * Clorazepate (Tranxene)
    * Desipramine (Norpramin)
    * Diazepam (Valium)
    * Doxepin (Sinequan)
    * Fluoxetine (Prozac)
    * Fluphenazine (Prolixin)
    * Imipramine (Tofranil)
    * Isocarboxazid (Marplan)
    * Lorazepam (Ativan)
    * Meprobamate (Equanil)
    * Mesoridazine (Serentil)
    * Nortriptyline (Pamelor)
    * Oxazepam (Serax)
    * Phenelzine (Nardil)
    * Phenytoin (Dilantin)
    * Sertraline (Zoloft)
    * Thioridazine (Mellaril)
    * Thiothixene (Navane)
    * Tranylcypromine (Parnate)
    * Trifluoperazine (Stelazine) 

Antihistamine medicines (certain classes of antihistamines are also used to
treat heartburn):

    * Cimetidine (Tagamet)
    * Dimenhydrinate (Dramamine)
    * Diphenhydramine (Benadryl)
    * Hydroxyzine (Vistaril)
    * Meclizine (Antivert)
    * Nizatidine (Axid)
    * Promethazine (Phenergan)
    * Ranitidine (Zantac) 

High blood pressure medicines and diuretics (water pills):

    * Atenolol (Tenormin)
    * Bethanidine
    * Bumetanide (Bumex)
    * Captopril (Capoten)
    * Chlorothiazide (Diuril)
    * Chlorthalidone (Hygroton)
    * Clonidine (Catapres)
    * Enalapril (Vasotec)
    * Furosemide (Lasix)
    * Guanabenz (Wytensin)
    * Guanethidine (Ismelin)
    * Guanfacine (Tenex)
    * Haloperidol (Haldol)
    * Hydralazine (Apresoline)
    * Hydrochlorothiazide (Esidrix)
    * Labetalol (Normodyne)
    * Methyldopa (Aldomet)
    * Metoprolol (Lopressor)
    * Nifedipine (Adalat, Procardia)
    * Phenoxybenzamine (Dibenzyline)
    * Phentolamine (Regitine)
    * Prazosin (Minipress)
    * Propranolol (Inderal)
    * Reserpine (Serpasil)
    * Spironolactone (Aldactone)
    * Triamterene (Maxzide)
    * Verapamil (Calan) 

Thiazides are the most common cause of erectile dysfunction among the high
blood pressure medicines. The next most common cause is beta blockers. Alpha
blockers tend to be less likely to cause this problem.

Parkinson disease medicines:

    * Benztropine (Cogentin)
    * Biperiden (Akineton)
    * Bromocriptine (Parlodel)
    * Levodopa (Sinemet)
    * Procyclidine (Kemadrin)
    * Trihexyphenidyl (Artane) 

Chemotherapy and hormonal medicines:

    * Antiandrogens (Casodex, Flutamide, Nilutamide)
    * Busulfan (Myleran)
    * Cyclophosphamide (Cytoxan)
    * Ketoconazole
    * LHRH agonists (Lupron, Zoladex) 
    * LHRH agonists (Firmagon)

Other medicines:

    * Aminocaproic acid (Amicar)
    * Atropine
    * Clofibrate (Atromid-S)
    * Cyclobenzaprine (Flexeril)
    * Cyproterone
    * Digoxin (Lanoxin)
    * Disopyramide (Norpace)
    * Dutasteride (Avodart)
    * Estrogen
    * Finasteride (Propecia, Proscar)
    * Furazolidone (Furoxone)
    * H2 blockers (Tagamet, Zantac, Pepcid)
    * Indomethacin (Indocin)
    * Lipid-lowering agents
    * Licorice
    * Metoclopramide (Reglan)
    * NSAIDs (ibuprofen, etc.)
    * Orphenadrine (Norflex)
    * Prochlorperazine (Compazine)
    * Pseudoephedrine (Sudafed)
    * Sumatriptan (Imitrex) 

Opiate analgesics (painkillers):

    * Codeine
    * Fentanyl (Innovar)
    * Hydromorphone (Dilaudid)
    * Meperidine (Demerol)
    * Methadone
    * Morphine
    * Oxycodone (Oxycontin, Percodan) 

Recreational drugs:

    * Alcohol
    * Amphetamines
    * Barbiturates
    * Cocaine
    * Marijuana
    * Heroin
    * Nicotine 

## Alternative Names

Impotence caused by medications; Drug-induced erectile dysfunction;
Prescription medicines and impotence

## References

Berookhim BM, Mulhall JP. Erectile dysfunction. In: Sidawy AN, Perler BA, eds.
_Rutherford's Vascular Surgery and Endovascular Therapy_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 191.

Burnett AL. Evaluation and management of erectile dysfunction. In: Wein AJ,
Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 27.

Waller DG, Sampson AP. Erectile dysfunction. In: Waller DG, Sampson AP, eds.
_Medical Pharmacology and Therapeutics_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2018:chap 16.

## Review Date 1/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Erectile
Dysfunction](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ErectileDysfunction_thumb.jpg)Erectile
Dysfunction _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

