Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007617.htm    
                                Description: An erection problem occurs when a man cannot get or keep an erection that is firm enough for intercourse. You may not be able to get an erection at all. Or, you may lose the erection during intercourse    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Erection problems

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007617.htm

# Erection problems

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An erection problem occurs when a man cannot get or keep an erection that is
firm enough for intercourse. You may not be able to get an erection at all.
Or, you may lose the erection during intercourse before you are ready.
Erection problems do not usually affect your sex drive.

Erection problems are common. Almost all adult men have trouble getting or
keeping an erection at one time or another. Often the problem goes away with
little or no treatment. But for some men, it can be an ongoing problem. This
is called erectile dysfunction (ED).

If you have trouble getting or keeping an erection more than 25% of the time,
you should see your health care provider.

## Causes

To get an erection, your brain, nerves, hormones, and blood vessels all need
to work together. If something gets in the way of these normal functions, it
can lead to erection problems.

An erection problem is usually not "all in your head." In fact, most erection
problems have a physical cause. Below are some common physical causes.

Disease:

    * Diabetes
    * High blood pressure
    * Heart or thyroid conditions
    * Clogged arteries (atherosclerosis)
    * Depression
    * Nervous system disorders, such as multiple sclerosis or Parkinson disease 

Medicines:

    * Antidepressants
    * Blood pressure medicines (especially beta-blockers)
    * Heart medicines, such as digoxin
    * Sleeping pills
    * Some peptic ulcer medicines 

Other physical causes:

    * Low testosterone levels. This can make it difficult to get an erection. It can also reduce a man's sex drive.
    * Nerve damage from prostate surgery.
    * Nicotine, alcohol, or cocaine use.
    * Spinal cord injury.

In some cases, your emotions or relationship problems can lead to ED, such as:

    * Poor communication with your partner.
    * Feelings of doubt and failure.
    * Stress, fear, anxiety, or anger.
    * Expecting too much from sex. This can make sex a task instead of a pleasure. 

Erection problems can affect men at any age, but are more common as you get
older. Physical causes are more common in older men. Emotional causes are more
common in younger men.

If you have erections in the morning or at night while you sleep, it is likely
not a physical cause. Most men have 3 to 5 erections at night that last about
30 minutes. Talk with your provider about how to find out if you have normal
nighttime erections.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

    * Trouble getting an erection
    * Trouble keeping an erection
    * Having an erection that is not firm enough for intercourse
    * Less interest in sex 

## Exams and Tests

Your provider will perform a physical exam, which may include:

    * Taking your blood pressure
    * Examining your penis and rectum to check for problems 

Your provider will also ask questions to help find the cause, such as:

    * Have you been able to get and keep erections in the past?
    * Are you having trouble getting an erection or keeping erections?
    * Do you have erections during sleep or in the morning?
    * How long have you had trouble with erections? 

YourÂ provider will also ask about your lifestyle:

    * Are you taking any medicines, including over-the counter medicines and supplements?
    * Do you drink, smoke, or use recreational drugs?
    * What is your state of mind? Are you stressed, depressed, or anxious?
    * Are you having relationship problems? 

You may have a number of different tests to help find the cause, such as:

    * Urinalysis or blood tests to check for health conditions such as diabetes, heart problems, or low testosterone
    * A device you wear at night to check for normal nighttime erections
    * Ultrasound of your penis to check for blood flow problems
    * Rigidity monitoring to test how strong your erection is
    * Psychological tests to check for depression and other emotional problems 

## Treatment

The treatment may depend on what is causing the problem and how healthy you
are. Your provider can talk with you about the best treatment for you.

For many men, lifestyle changes can help. These include:

    * Getting exercise
    * Eating a healthy diet
    * Losing extra weight
    * Sleeping well 

If you and your partner have trouble talking about your relationship, it may
cause problems with sex. Counseling can help both you and your partner.

Lifestyle changes alone may not be enough. There are many treatment options.

    * Pills you take by mouth, such as sildenafil (Viagra), vardenafil (Levitra), and tadalafil (Cialis). They work only when you are sexually aroused. They usually start to work in 15 to 45 minutes.
    * Medicine inserted into the urethra or injected into the penis to improve blood flow. Very small needles are used and do not cause pain.
    * Surgery to place implants in the penis. The implants may be inflatable or semi-rigid.
    * A vacuum device. This is used to pull blood into the penis. A special rubber band is then used to keep the erection during intercourse.
    * Testosterone replacement if your testosterone level is low. This comes in skin patches, gel, or injections into the muscle. 

ED pills you take by mouth (Viagra, Levitra, or Cialis) can have side effects.
These can range from muscle pain and flushing to heart attack. DO NOT use
these drugs with nitroglycerin. The combination can cause your blood pressure
to drop.

You may not be able to use these drugs if you have any of the following
conditions:

    * Recent stroke or heart attack
    * Severe heart disease, such as unstable angina or irregular heartbeat (arrhythmia)
    * Severe heart failure
    * Uncontrolled high blood pressure
    * Uncontrolled diabetes
    * Very low blood pressure 

Other treatments also have possible side effects and complications. Ask your
provider to explain the risks and benefits of each treatment.

You may see many herbs and supplements that claim to help sexual performance
or desire. However, none have been proven to successfully treat ED. Plus, they
may not always be safe. DO NOT take anything without talking with your
provider first.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Many men overcome erection problems with lifestyle changes, treatment, or
both. For more severe cases, you and your partner may have to adjust to how ED
affects your sex life. Even with treatment, counseling can help you and your
partner overcome the stress ED may put on your relationship.

## Possible Complications

An erection problem that does not go away can make you feel bad about
yourself. It can also harm your relationship with your partner. ED may be a
sign of health problems such as diabetes or heart disease. So if you have an
erection problem, do not wait to seek help.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * The problem does not go away with lifestyle changes
    * The problem begins after an injury or prostate surgery
    * You have other symptoms, such as low back pain, abdominal pain, or a change in urination 

If you think any medicine you are taking may be causing erection problems,
talk with your provider. You may need to lower the dose or change to another
drug. DO NOT change or stop taking any medicine without first talking to your
provider.

Talk to your provider if your erection problems have to do with a fear of
heart problems. Sexual intercourse is usually safe for men with heart
problems.

Call your provider right away or go to an emergency room if you are taking ED
medicine and it gives you an erection that lasts for more than 4 hours.

## Prevention

To help prevent erection problems:

    * Quit smoking.
    * Cut back on alcohol (no more than 2 drinks per day).
    * DO NOT use illegal drugs.
    * Get plenty of sleep and take time to relax.
    * Stay at a healthy weight for your height.
    * Exercise and eat a healthy diet to keep good blood circulation.
    * If you have diabetes, keep blood sugar well-controlled.
    * Talk openly with your partner about your relationship and sex life. Seek counseling if you and your partner have trouble communicating. 

## Alternative Names

Erectile dysfunction; Impotence; Sexual dysfunction - male

## Images

    * ![Impotence and age](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9452t.jpg)Impotence and age

## References

American Urological Association website. What is erectile dysfunction?
www.urologyhealth.org/urologic-conditions/erectile-dysfunction/printable-
version. Accessed January 23, 2018.

Burnett AL. Evaluation and management of erectile dysfunction. In: Wein AJ,
Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 27.

Swerdloff RS, Wang C. The testis and male hypogonadism, infertility, and
sexual dysfunction. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_.
25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 234.

## Review Date 10/8/2017

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Erectile
Dysfunction](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ErectileDysfunction_thumb.jpg)Erectile
Dysfunction _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

