Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/testosterone-levels-test/    
                                Description: A testosterone levels test measures testosterone in the blood. Low or high levels may be a sign of a health problem in men, women, or boys. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Testosterone Levels Test

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/testosterone-levels-test/

# Testosterone Levels Test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a testosterone levels test?

Testosterone is the main sex hormone in males. During a boy's puberty,
testosterone causes the growth of body hair, muscle development, and deepening
of the voice. In adult men, it controls sex drive, maintains muscle mass, and
helps make sperm. Women also have testosterone in their bodies, but in much
smaller amounts.

This test measures the levels of testosterone in your blood. Most of the
testosterone in the blood is attached to proteins. Testosterone that is not
attached to a protein is called free testosterone. There are two main types of
testosterone tests:

    * **Total testosterone,** which measures both attached and free testosterone.
    * **Free testosterone,** which measures just free testosterone. Free testosterone can give more information about certain medical conditions.

Testosterone levels that are too low (low T) or too high (high T) can cause
health problems in both men and women.

Other names: serum testosterone, total testosterone, free testosterone,
bioavailable testosterone

## What is it used for?

A testosterone levels test may be used to diagnose several conditions,
including:

    * Decreased sex drive in men and women
    * Infertility in men and women
    * Erectile dysfunction in men
    * Tumors of testicles in men
    * Early or delayed puberty in boys
    * Excess body hair growth and development of masculine features in women
    * Irregular menstrual periods in women

## Why do I need a testosterone levels test?

You may need this test if you have symptoms of abnormal testosterone levels.
For adult men, it's mostly ordered if there are symptoms of low T levels. For
women, it's mostly ordered if there are symptoms of high T levels.

Symptoms of low T levels in men include:

    * Low sex drive
    * Difficulty getting an erection
    * Development of breast tissue
    * Fertility problems
    * Hair loss
    * Weak bones
    * Loss of muscle mass

Symptoms of high T levels in women include:

    * Excess body and facial hair growth
    * Deepening of voice
    * Menstrual irregularities
    * Acne
    * Weight gain

Boys may also need a testosterone levels test. In boys, delayed puberty can be
a symptom of low T , while early puberty may be a symptom of high T.

## What happens during a testosterone levels test?

A health care professional will take a blood sample from a vein in your arm,
using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a small amount of blood
will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel a little sting when
the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than five minutes.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You don't need any special preparations for a testosterone levels test.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

## What do the results mean?

Results mean different things depending on whether you are a man, woman, or
boy.

For men:

    * High T levels may mean a tumor in the testicles or adrenal glands. Adrenal glands are located above the kidneys and help control heart rate, blood pressure, and other bodily functions.
    * Low T levels may mean a genetic or chronic disease, or a problem with the pituitary gland. The pituitary gland is a small organ in the brain that controls many functions, including growth and fertility.

For women:

    * High T levels may indicate a condition called polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS). PCOS is a common hormone disorder affecting women of childbearing age. It is one of the leading causes of female infertility.
    * It may also mean cancer of the ovaries or adrenal glands.
    * Low T levels are normal, but extremely low levels may indicate Addison disease, a disorder of the pituitary gland.

For boys:

    * High T levels may mean cancer in the testicles or adrenal glands.
    * Low T levels in boys may mean there is some other problem with the testicles, including an injury.

If your results are not normal, it doesn't necessarily mean you have a medical
condition needing treatment. Certain medicines, as well as alcoholism, can
affect your results. If you have questions about your results, talk to your
health care provider.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about a testosterone levels test?

Men who are diagnosed with low T levels may benefit from testosterone
supplements, as prescribed by their health care provider. Testosterone
supplements are not recommended for men with normal T levels. There is no
proof they provide any benefits, and in fact they may be harmful to healthy
men.

## References

    1. American Diabetes Association [Internet]. Arlington (VA): American Diabetes Association; c1995â2018. A1C and Empower [Internet]. Jacksonville (FL): American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists; The Many Roles of Testosterone [cited 2018 Feb 7]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.empoweryourhealth.org/magazine/vol2_issue3/The-many-roles-of-testosterone
    2. Hormone Health Network [Internet]. Endocrine Society; c2018. Low Testosterone [cited 2018 Feb 7]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.hormone.org/diseases-and-conditions/mens-health/low-testosterone
    3. Hormone Health Network [Internet]. Endocrine Society; c2018. Male Menopause Myth vs. Fact [cited 2018 Feb 8]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.hormone.org/diseases-and-conditions/mens-health/low-testosterone/male-menopause
    4. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.; American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. Adrenal Gland [updated 2017 Jul 10; cited 2018 Feb 7]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/glossary/adrenal
    5. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.; American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. Polycystic Ovary Syndrome [updated 2017 Nov 28; cited 2018 Feb 7]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/conditions/polycystic-ovary-syndrome
    6. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.; American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. Testosterone [updated 2018 Jan 15; cited 2018 Feb 7]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/testosterone
    7. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2018. Sexual health: Is there any safe way to naturally boost a man's testosterone level?; 2017 July 19 [cited 2018 Feb 7]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/healthy-lifestyle/sexual-health/expert-answers/testosterone-level/faq-20089016
    8. Mayo Clinic: Mayo Medical Laboratories [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1995â2018. Test ID: TGRP: Testosterone, Total and Free, Serum: Clinical and Interpretive [cited 2018 Feb 7]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayomedicallaboratories.com/test-catalog/Clinical+and+Interpretive/8508
    9. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms: pituitary gland [cited 2018 Feb 7]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/publications/dictionaries/cancer-terms/def/pituitary-gland
    10. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Blood Tests [cited 2018 Feb 7]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    11. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. University of Florida; c2018. Testosterone [updated 2018 Feb 7; cited 2018 Feb 7]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/testosterone
    12. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2018. Health Encyclopedia: Total Testosterone [cited 2018 Feb 7]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid;=testosterone_total
    13. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Testosterone: Results [updated 2017 May 3; cited 2018 Feb 7]; [about 8 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/testosterone/hw27307.html#hw27335
    14. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Testosterone: Test Overview [updated 2017 May 3; cited 2018 Feb 7]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/testosterone/hw27307.html
    15. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Testosterone: What Affects the Test [updated 2017 May 3; cited 2018 Feb 7]; [about 9 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/testosterone/hw27307.html#hw27336
    16. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Testosterone: Why It is Done [updated 2017 May 3; cited 2018 Feb 7]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/testosterone/hw27307.html#hw27315

## Related Health Topics

    * Addison Disease
    * Adrenal Gland Disorders
    * Female Infertility
    * Hormones
    * Infertility
    * Male Infertility
    * Menstruation
    * Pituitary Disorders
    * Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
    * Puberty

## Related Lab Test Information

    * How to Understand Your Lab Results

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 26 February 2020 Page last reviewed: 27 June 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

