Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003718.htm    
                                Description: Prolactin is a hormone released by the pituitary gland. The prolactin test measures the amount of prolactin in the blood.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Prolactin blood test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003718.htm

# Prolactin blood test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Prolactin is a hormone released by the pituitary gland. The prolactin test
measures the amount of prolactin in the blood.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is necessary.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or a slight bruise. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

Prolactin is a hormone released by the pituitary gland The pituitary is a
small gland at the base of the brain. It regulates the body's balance of many
hormones.

Prolactin stimulates breast development and milk production in women. There is
no known normal function for prolactin in men.

Prolactin is usually measured when checking for pituitary tumors and the cause
of:

    * Breast milk production that is not related to childbirth (galactorrhea)
    * Decreased sex drive (libido) in men and women
    * Erection problems in men
    * Not able to get pregnant (infertility)
    * Irregular or no menstrual periods (amenorrhea) 

## Normal Results

The normal values for prolactin are:

    * Men: less than 20 ng/mL (425 Âµg/L)
    * Nonpregnant women: less than 25 ng/mL (25 Âµg/L)
    * Pregnant women: 80 to 400 ng/mL (80 to 400 Âµg/L)

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your doctor
about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

People with the following conditions may have high prolactin levels:

    * Chest wall injury or irritation
    * Disease of an area of the brain called the hypothalamus
    * Thyroid gland does not make enough thyroid hormone (hypothyroidism)
    * Kidney disease
    * Pituitary tumor that makes prolactin (prolactinoma)
    * Other pituitary tumors and diseases in the area of the pituitary 

Certain medicines can also raise prolactin level, including:

    * Antidepressants
    * Butyrophenones
    * Estrogens
    * H2 blockers
    * Methyldopa
    * Metoclopramide
    * Opiate medicines
    * Phenothiazines
    * Reserpine
    * Risperidone
    * Verapamil 

Marijuana products can also raise prolactin level.

If your prolactin level is high, the test may be repeated in the early morning
after an 8-hour fast.

The following can temporarily increase prolactin levels:

    * Emotional or physical stress (occasionally)
    * High-protein meals
    * Intense breast stimulation
    * Recent breast exam
    * Recent exercise 

Interpretation of an abnormally high prolactin blood test is complicated. In
most case, your provider will need to refer you to an endocrinologist, a
doctor who specializes in hormone problems.

## Risks

There is little risk in having your blood taken. Veins and arteries vary in
size from one person to another and from one side of the body to the other.
Taking blood from some people may be more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Hematoma (blood buildup under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

## Alternative Names

PRL; Galactorrhea - prolactin test; Infertility - prolactin test; Amenorrhea -
prolactin test; Breast leakage - prolactin test; Prolactinoma - prolactin
test; Pituitary tumor - prolactin test

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Prolactin (human prolactin, HPRL) - serum. In:
Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_.
6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:910-911.

Guber HA, Farag AF. Evaluation of endocrine function. In: McPherson RA, Pincus
MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_.
23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 24.

## Review Date 8/19/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Erectile
Dysfunction](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ErectileDysfunction_thumb.jpg)Erectile
Dysfunction _Read more_

![Female
Infertility](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FemaleInfertility_thumb.jpg)Female
Infertility _Read more_

![Hormones](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hormones2_thumb.jpg)Hormones _Read
more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

