Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000801.htm    
                                Description: A saline nasal wash helps flush pollen, dust, and other debris from your nasal passages. It also helps remove excess mucus (snot) and adds moisture. Your nasal passages are open spaces behind your nose.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Saline nasal washes

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000801.htm

# Saline nasal washes

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A saline nasal wash helps flush pollen, dust, and other debris from your nasal
passages. It also helps remove excess mucus (snot) and adds moisture. Your
nasal passages are open spaces behind your nose. Air passes through your nasal
passages before entering your lungs.

Nasal washes can help relieve nasal allergy symptoms and help prevent sinus
infections (sinusitis).

## How to use Saline Nasal Washes

You can buy a device such as a neti pot, squeeze bottle, or rubber nasal bulb
at your drug store. You can also buy saline solution made specifically for
nasal rinses. Or, you can make your own rinse by mixing:

    * 1 teaspoons (tsp) or 5 grams (g) canning or pickling salt (no iodine)
    * A pinch of baking soda
    * 2 cups (0.5 liters) warm distilled, filtered, or boiled water 

To use the wash:

    * Fill the device with half the saline solution.
    * Keeping your head over a sink or in the shower, tilt your head sideways to the left. Breathe through your open mouth.
    * Gently pour or squeeze the solution into your right nostril. The water should come out the left nostril.
    * You can adjust the tilt of your head to keep the solution from going into your throat or into your ears.
    * Repeat on the other side.
    * Gently blow your nose to remove remaining water and mucus. 

## Important Tips

You should:

    * Be sure you only use distilled, boiled, or filtered water. While rare, some tap water may contain small germs that can cause infection.
    * Always clean the neti pot or nasal bulb with distilled, boiled, or filtered water after every use and let it dry.
    * Use the nasal wash before using other medicines, such as a nasal spray. This will help your nasal passages better absorb the medicine.
    * It may take a few attempts to learn the technique of washing your nasal passages. You also may feel a slight burn at first, which should go away. If needed, use a little less salt in your saline solution.
    * DO NOT use if your nasal passages are completely blocked. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Be sure to call your health care provider if you notice:

    * Nosebleeds
    * Fever
    * Pain
    * Headaches

## Alternative Names

Salt water washes; Nasal irrigation; Nasal lavage; Sinusitis - nasal wash

## References

DeMuri GP, Wald ER. Sinusitis. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds.
_Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 62.

Rabago D, Hayer S, Zgierska A. Nasal irrigation for upper respiratory
conditions. In: Rakel D, ed. _Integrative Medicine_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 113.

## Review Date 9/16/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Allergy
    * Sinusitis

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

