Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000563.htm    
                                Description: Your sinuses are chambers in your skull around your nose and eyes. They are filled with air. Sinusitis is an infection of these chambers, which causes them to become swollen or inflamed.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Sinusitis in adults - aftercare

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000563.htm

# Sinusitis in adults - aftercare

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Your sinuses are chambers in your skull around your nose and eyes. They are
filled with air. Sinusitis is an infection of these chambers, which causes
them to become swollen or inflamed.

## What to Expect

Many cases of sinusitis clear up on their own. Most of the time, you DO NOT
need antibiotics if your sinusitis lasts for less than 2 weeks. Even when you
do use antibiotics, they may only slightly reduce the time you are sick.

Your health care provider is more likely to prescribe antibiotics if your
sinusitis lasts longer than 2 weeks or recurs often.

Your provider may also refer you to an ear, nose, and throat doctor or an
allergy specialist.

## Symptom Relief

Keeping mucus thin will help it drain from your sinuses and relieve your
symptoms. Drinking plenty of clear fluids is one way to do this. You can also:

    * Apply a warm, moist washcloth to your face several times a day.
    * Inhale steam 2 to 4 times a day. One way to do this is to sit in the bathroom with the shower running. DO NOT inhale hot steam.
    * Spray with nasal saline several times per day. 

Use a humidifier to keep the air in your room moist.

You can buy nasal sprays that relieve stuffiness or congestion without a
prescription. They may help at first, but using them for more than 3 to 5 days
can cause your symptoms to get worse.

To further relieve your symptoms, try to avoid the following:

    * Flying when you are congested
    * Very hot or very cold temperatures or sudden changes in temperature
    * Bending forward with your head down

## Allergies and Sinusitis

Allergies that are not well-controlled can make sinus infections harder to
treat.

Antihistamines and nasal corticosteroid sprays are 2 types of medicine that
work well for allergy symptoms.

You can do many things to limit your exposure to triggers, things that make
your allergies worse.

    * Reduce dust and dust mites in the home.
    * Control molds, indoors and out.
    * Avoid exposure to plant pollens and animals that trigger your symptoms. 

## Taking Antibiotics

DO NOT self-treat by taking leftover antibiotics you may have at home. If your
provider prescribes antibiotics for your sinus infection, follow these general
rules for taking them:

    * Take all of the pills as prescribed, even if you feel better before you finish them.
    * Always dispose of any unused antibiotic pills you may have at home. 

Watch for common side effects of antibiotics, including:

    * Skin rashes
    * Diarrhea
    * For women, yeast infection of the vagina (vaginitis) 

## Stay Healthy to Avoid Sinus Infections

Reduce stress and get enough sleep. Not getting enough sleep makes you more
likely to get sick.

Other things you can do to prevent infections:

    * If you smoke, stop.
    * Avoid secondhand smoke.
    * Get a flu shot every year.
    * Wash your hands often, such as after shaking other people's hands.
    * Treat your allergies. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

    * Your symptoms last longer than 10 to 14 days.
    * You have a severe headache that does not get better when you use pain medicine.
    * You have a fever.
    * You still have symptoms after taking all of your antibiotics properly.
    * You have any changes in your vision.
    * You notice small growths in your nose.

## Alternative Names

Sinus infection - self-care; Rhinosinusitis - self-care

## Images

    * ![Chronic sinusitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19356t.jpg)Chronic sinusitis

## References

Borish L. Allergic rhinitis and chronic sinusitis. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI,
eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 251.

DeMuri GP, Wald ER. Sinusitis. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds.
_Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases, Update Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 63.

Rosenfeld RM, Piccirillo JF, Chandrasekhar SS, et al. Clinical practice
guideline (update): adult sinusitis. _Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg_. 2015;152(2
Suppl):S1-S39. PMID: 25832968 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25832968.

## Review Date 4/15/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Sinusitis

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

