Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007349.htm    
                                Description: A computed tomography (CT) scan of the sinus is an imaging test that uses x-rays to make detailed pictures of the air-filled spaces inside the face (sinuses).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Sinus CT scan

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007349.htm

# Sinus CT scan

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A computed tomography (CT) scan of the sinus is an imaging test that uses
x-rays to make detailed pictures of the air-filled spaces inside the face
(sinuses).

## How the Test is Performed

You will be asked to lie on a narrow table that slides into the center of the
CT scanner. You may lie on your back, or you may lie face-down with your chin
raised.

Once you are inside the scanner, the machine's x-ray beam rotates around you.
You will not see the rotating x-ray beam. (Modern "spiral" scanners can
perform the exam without stopping.)

A computer creates separate images of the body area. These are called slices.
The images can be stored, viewed on a monitor, or printed on film. Three-
dimensional models of the body area can be created by stacking the slices
together.

You need to stay still during the exam, because movement causes blurred
images. You may be told to hold your breath for short periods of time. Straps
and pillows may be used to keep you still during the procedure.

The actual scan should take about 30 seconds. The entire process should take
15 minutes.

## How to Prepare for the Test

For some tests, you will need to have a special dye, called contrast, to be
delivered into the body before the test starts. Contrast helps certain areas
show up better on the x-rays.

    * Contrast can be given through a vein (IV) in your hand or forearm. If contrast is used, you may also be asked not to eat or drink anything for 4 to 6 hours before the test.
    * Let your health care provider know if you have ever had a reaction to contrast. You may need to take medicines before the test in order to safely receive this substance.
    * Let your provider know if you have kidney problems. Contrast may not be used if this is the case.
    * Before receiving the contrast, tell your provider if you take the diabetes medicine metformin (Glucophage). You may need to take extra steps to prepare. 

If you weigh more than 300 pounds (135 kilograms), find out if the CT machine
has a weight limit. Too much weight can cause damage to the scanner's working
parts.

You will be asked to remove jewelry and wear a hospital gown during the scan.

## How the Test will Feel

Some people may have discomfort from lying on the hard table.

Contrast given through an IV may cause a:

    * Slight burning sensation
    * Metallic taste in the mouth
    * Warm flushing of the body

These feelings are normal. They will go away within a few seconds.

## Why the Test is Performed

CT rapidly creates detailed pictures of the sinuses. The test may diagnose or
detect:

    * Birth defects in the sinuses
    * Infection in the bones of the sinuses (osteomyelitis)
    * Injury to the face over the sinuses from trauma
    * Masses and tumors, including cancer
    * Nasal polyps
    * The cause of repeated bloody noses (epistaxis)
    * Sinus infection (sinusitis) 

The results from this test may also help your provider plan for sinus surgery.

## Normal Results

Results are considered normal if no problems are seen in the sinuses.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be due to:

    * Birth defects
    * Bone fractures
    * Cancer
    * Polyps in the sinuses
    * Sinus infection (sinusitis)

## Risks

Risks for a CT scan includes:

    * Being exposed to radiation
    * Allergic reaction to contrast dye 

CT scans expose you to more radiation than regular x-rays. Having many x-rays
or CT scans over time may increase your risk for cancer. However, the risk
from any one scan is very small. You and your provider should weigh this risk
against the benefits of getting a correct diagnosis for a medical problem.

Some people have allergies to contrast dye. Let your provider know if you have
ever had an allergic reaction to injected contrast dye.

    * The most common type of contrast given into a vein contains iodine. A person with an iodine allergy may have nausea or vomiting, sneezing, itching, or hives if given this type of contrast.
    * If contrast is needed, you may be given antihistamines (such as Benadryl) or steroids before the test.
    * The kidneys help remove iodine out of the body. Those with kidney disease or diabetes may need to get extra fluids after the test to help flush the iodine out of the body. 

Rarely, the dye may cause a life-threatening allergic response called
anaphylaxis. If you have any trouble breathing during the test, let the
scanner operator know right away. Scanners have an intercom and speakers, so
the operator can hear you at all times.

## Alternative Names

CAT scan - sinus; Computed axial tomography scan - sinus; Computed tomography
scan - sinus; CT scan - sinus

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Computed tomography of the body (spiral [helical],
electron beam [EBCT, ultrafast], high resolution [HRCT], 64-slice
multidetector [MDCT])-diagnostic. In: Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds.
_Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier
Saunders; 2013:374-376.

Herring W. Recognizing the normal abdomen and pelvis on computed tomography.
In: Herring W, ed. _Learning Radiology: Recognizing the Basics_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap14.

Nichols JR, Puskarich MA. Abdominal trauma. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 39.

O'Handley JG, Tobin EJ, Shah AR. Otorhinolaryngology. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP,
eds. _Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 18.

## Review Date 12/23/2018

Updated by: Jason Levy, MD, Northside Radiology Associates, Atlanta, GA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![CT Scans](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CTScan_thumb.jpg)CT Scans _Read
more_

![Nose Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NoseInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Nose
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![Sinusitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Sinusitis2_thumb.jpg)Sinusitis
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

