Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003049.htm    
                                Description: A stuffy or congested nose occurs when the tissues lining it become swollen. The swelling is due to inflamed blood vessels.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Stuffy or runny nose â adult

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003049.htm

# Stuffy or runny nose â adult

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A stuffy or congested nose occurs when the tissues lining it become swollen.
The swelling is due to inflamed blood vessels.

The problem may also include nasal discharge or "runny nose." If excess mucus
runs down the back of your throat (postnasal drip), it may cause a cough or
sore throat.

## Causes

A stuffy or runny nose may be caused by:

    * Common cold
    * Flu
    * Sinus infection

The congestion typically goes away by itself within a week.

Congestion also can be caused by:

    * Hay fever or other allergies
    * Use of some nasal sprays or drops bought without a prescription for more than 3 days (may make nasal stuffiness worse)
    * Nasal polyps, sac-like growths of inflamed tissue lining the nose or sinuses
    * Pregnancy
    * Vasomotor rhinitis

## Home Care

Finding ways to keep mucus thin will help it drain from your nose and sinuses
and relieve your symptoms. Drinking plenty of clear fluids is one way to do
this. You can also:

    * Apply a warm, moist washcloth to your face several times a day.
    * Inhale steam 2 to 4 times a day. One way to do this is to sit in the bathroom with the shower running. Do not inhale hot steam.
    * Use a vaporizer or humidifier. 

A nasal wash can help remove mucus from your nose.

    * You can buy a saline spray at a drugstore or make one at home. To make one, use 1 cup (240 milliliters) of warm water, 1/2 teaspoon (3 grams) of salt, and a pinch of baking soda.
    * Use gentle saline nasal sprays 3 to 4 times per day. 

Congestion is often worse when lying down. Keep upright, or at least keep the
head elevated.

Some stores sell adhesive strips that can be placed on the nose. These help
widen the nostrils, making breathing easier.

Medicines you can buy at the store without a prescription can help your
symptoms.

    * Decongestants are drugs that shrink and dry up your nasal passages. They may help dry up a runny or stuffy nose.
    * Antihistamines are drugs that treat allergy symptoms. Some antihistamines make you drowsy so use with care.
    * Nasal sprays can relieve stuffiness. Don't use over-the-counter nasal sprays more often than 3 days on and 3 days off, unless told to by your health care provider. 

Many cough, allergy, and cold medicines you buy have more than one medicine
inside. Read the labels carefully to make sure you don't take too much of any
one medicine. Ask your provider which cold medicines are safe for you.

If you have allergies:

    * Your provider may also prescribe nasal sprays that treat allergy symptoms.
    * Learn how to avoid triggers that make allergies worse. 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider for any of the following:

    * A stuffy nose with swelling of the forehead, eyes, side of the nose, or cheek, or that occurs with blurred vision
    * More throat pain, or white or yellow spots on the tonsils or other parts of the throat
    * Discharge from the nose that has a bad smell, comes from only one side, or is a color other than white or yellow
    * Cough that lasts longer than 10 days, or produces yellow-green or gray mucus
    * Nasal discharge following a head injury
    * Symptoms that last more than 3 weeks
    * Nasal discharge with fever 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider may perform a physical exam that focuses on the ears, nose,
throat, and airways.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Allergy skin tests
    * Blood tests
    * Sputum culture and throat culture
    * X-rays of the sinuses and chest x-ray

## Alternative Names

Nose - congested; Congested nose; Runny nose; Postnasal drip; Rhinorrhea;
Nasal congestion

## Images

    * ![Runny and stuffy nose](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19674t.jpg)Runny and stuffy nose

## References

Bachert C, Zhang N, Gevaert P. Rhinosinusitis and nasal polyps. In: Burks AW,
Holgate ST, O'Hehir RE, et al, eds. _Middleton's Allergy: Principles and
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 41.

Corren J, Baroody FM, Togias A. Allergic and nonallergic rhinitis. In: Burks
AW, Holgate ST, O'Hehir RE, et al, eds. _Middleton's Allergy: Principles and
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 40.

Cohen YZ. The common cold. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell,
Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases_. 9th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 58.

## Review Date 7/11/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Allergy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Allergy_thumb.jpg)Allergy _Read
more_

![Common Cold](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CommonCold_thumb.jpg)Common Cold
_Read more_

![Drug Reactions](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DrugReactions_thumb.jpg)Drug
Reactions _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

