Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003803.htm    
                                Description: A sinus x-ray is an imaging test to look at the sinuses. These are the air-filled spaces in the front of the skull.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Sinus x-ray

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003803.htm

# Sinus x-ray

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A sinus x-ray is an imaging test to look at the sinuses. These are the air-
filled spaces in the front of the skull.

## How the Test is Performed

A sinus x-ray is taken in a hospital radiology department. Or the x-ray may be
taken in the health care provider's office. You are asked to sit in a chair so
that any fluid in the sinuses can be seen in the x-ray images. The
technologist may place your head in different positions as the images are
taken.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Tell the doctor or x-ray technologist if you are or think you are pregnant.
You will be asked to remove all jewelry. You may be asked to change into a
gown.

## How the Test will Feel

There is little or no discomfort with a sinusÂ x-ray.

## Why the Test is Performed

The sinuses are located behind the forehead, nasal bones, cheeks, and eyes.
When the sinus openings become blocked or too much mucus builds up, bacteria
and other germs can grow. This can lead to an infection and inflammation of
the sinuses called sinusitis.

A sinus x-ray is ordered when you have any of the following:

    * Symptoms of sinusitis
    * Other sinus disorders, such as a deviated septum (crooked or bent septum, the structure that separates the nostrils)
    * Symptoms of another infection of that area of the head

These days,Â a sinus x-ray is not often ordered. This is because a CT scan of
the sinuses shows more detail.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

The x-ray may detect an infection, blockages, bleeding or tumors.

## Risks

There is low radiation exposure. X-rays are monitored and regulated so that
the lowest amount of radiation is used to produce the image.

Pregnant women and children are more sensitive to the risks of x-rays.

## Alternative Names

Paranasal sinus radiography; X-ray - sinuses

## Images

    * ![Sinuses](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1108t.jpg)Sinuses

## References

Beale T, Brown J, Rout J. ENT, neck, and dental radiology. In: Adam A, Dixon
AK, Gillard JH, Schaefer-Prokop CM, eds. _Grainger & Allison's Diagnostic
Radiology: A Textbook of Medical Imaging_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Churchill Livingstone; 2015:chap 67.

Mettler FA. Head and soft tissues of face and neck. In: Mettler FA, ed.
_Essentials of Radiology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019: chap 2.

## Review Date 8/12/2019

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Meningitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Meningitis_thumb.jpg)Meningitis
_Read more_

![Sinusitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Sinusitis2_thumb.jpg)Sinusitis
_Read more_

![X-Rays](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Xray_thumb.jpg)X-Rays _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

