Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000647.htm    
                                Description: Sinusitis is present when the tissue lining the sinuses become swollen or inflamed. It occurs as the result of an infection from a virus, bacteria, or fungus.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Sinusitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000647.htm

# Sinusitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Sinusitis is present when the tissue lining the sinuses become swollen or
inflamed. It occurs as the result of an infection from a virus, bacteria, or
fungus.

## Causes

The sinuses are air-filled spaces in the skull. They are located behind the
forehead, nasal bones, cheeks, and eyes. Healthy sinuses contain no bacteria
or other germs. Most of the time, mucus is able to drain out and air is able
to flow through the sinuses.

![Sinuses](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/1108.jpg)

When the sinus openings become blocked or too much mucus builds up, bacteria
and other germs can grow more easily.

Sinusitis can occur from one of these conditions:

    * Small hairs (cilia) in the sinuses fail to properly move mucus out. This may be due to some medical conditions.
    * Colds and allergies may cause too much mucus to be made or block the opening of the sinuses.
    * A deviated nasal septum, nasal bone spur, or nasal polyps may block the opening of the sinuses. 
![Sinusitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19315.jpg)

There are two types of sinusitis:

    * Acute sinusitis is when symptoms are present for 4 weeks or less. It is caused by bacteria growing in the sinuses.
    * Chronic sinusitis is when the swelling of the sinuses is present for longer than 3 months. It may be caused by bacteria or a fungus. 

The following may increase the risk that an adult or child will develop
sinusitis:

    * Allergic rhinitis or hay fever
    * Cystic fibrosis
    * Going to day care
    * Diseases that prevent the cilia from working properly
    * Changes in altitude (flying or scuba diving)
    * Large adenoids
    * Smoking
    * Weakened immune system from HIV or chemotherapy
    * Abnormal sinus structures 

## Symptoms

The symptoms of acute sinusitis in adults very often follow a cold that does
not get better or that gets worse after 5 to 7 days. Symptoms include:

    * Bad breath or loss of smell
    * Cough, often worse at night
    * Fatigue and general feeling of being ill
    * Fever
    * Headache
    * Pressure-like pain, pain behind the eyes, toothache, or tenderness of the face
    * Nasal stuffiness and discharge
    * Sore throat and postnasal drip 

Symptoms of chronic sinusitis are the same as those of acute sinusitis.
However, the symptoms tend to be milder and last longer than 12 weeks.

Symptoms of sinusitis in children include:

    * Cold or respiratory illness that has been getting better and then begins to get worse
    * High fever, along with a darkened nasal discharge, that lasts for at least 3 days
    * Nasal discharge, with or without a cough, that has been present for more than 10 days and is not improving 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will examine you or your child for sinusitis by:

    * Looking in the nose for signs of polyps
    * Shining a light against the sinus (transillumination) for signs of inflammation
    * Tapping over a sinus area to find infection 

The provider may view the sinuses through a fiberoptic scope (called nasal
endoscopy or rhinoscopy)Â to diagnose sinusitis. This is often done by doctors
who specialize in ear, nose, and throat problems (ENTs).

Imaging tests that may be used to decide on treatment are:

    * A CT scan of the sinuses to help diagnose sinusitis or view the bones and tissues of the sinuses more closely
    * An MRI of the sinuses if there might be a tumor or fungal infection 

Most of the time, regular x-rays of the sinuses do not diagnose sinusitis
well.

If you or your child has sinusitis that does not go away or keeps returning,
other tests may include:

    * Allergy testing
    * Blood tests for HIV or other tests for poor immune function
    * Ciliary function test
    * Nasal culture
    * Nasal cytology
    * Sweat chloride tests for cystic fibrosis 

## Treatment

SELF-CARE

Try the following steps to reduce stuffiness in your sinuses:

    * Apply a warm, moist washcloth to your face several times a day.
    * Drink plenty of fluids to thin the mucus.
    * Inhale steam 2 to 4 times per day (for example, while sitting in the bathroom with the shower running).
    * Spray with nasal saline several times per day.
    * Use a humidifier.
    * Use a Neti pot or saline squeeze bottleÂ to flush the sinuses. 

Be careful with use of over-the-counter spray nasal decongestants such as
oxymetazoline (Afrin) or neosynephrine. They may help at first, but using them
for more than 3 to 5 days can make nasal stuffiness worse.

To help ease sinus pain or pressure:

    * Avoid flying when you are congested.
    * Avoid temperature extremes, sudden changes in temperature, and bending forward with your head down.
    * Try acetaminophen or ibuprofen. 

MEDICINE AND OTHER TREATMENTS

Most of the time, antibiotics are not needed for acute sinusitis. Most of
these infections go away on their own. Even when antibiotics do help, they may
only slightly reduce the time it takes for the infection to go away.
Antibiotics are more likely to be prescribed sooner for:

    * Children with nasal discharge, possibly with a cough, that is not getting better after 2 to 3 weeks
    * Fever higher than 102.2Â°F (39Â°C)
    * Headache or pain in the face
    * Severe swelling around the eyes 

Acute sinusitis should be treated for 10 to 14 days. Chronic sinusitis should
be treated for 3 to 4 weeks. Some people with chronic sinusitis may need
special medicines to treat fungal infections.

At some point, your provider will consider:

    * Other prescription medicines
    * More testing
    * Referral to an ear, nose, and throat or allergy specialist 

Other treatments for sinusitis include:

    * Allergy shots (immunotherapy) to help prevent the disease from returning
    * Avoiding allergy triggers
    * Nasal corticosteroid sprays and antihistamines to decrease swelling, especially if there are nasal polyps or allergies 

Surgery to enlarge the sinus opening and drain the sinuses may also be needed.
You may consider this procedure if:

    * Your symptoms do not go away after 3 months of treatment.
    * You have more than 2 or 3 episodes of acute sinusitis each year. 

Most fungal sinus infections need surgery. Surgery to repair a deviated septum
or nasal polyps may prevent the condition from returning.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most sinus infections can be cured with self-care measures and medical
treatment. If you are having repeated attacks, you should be checked for
causes such as nasal polyps or other problems, such as allergies.

## Possible Complications

Although very rare, complications may include:

    * Abscess
    * Bone infection (osteomyelitis)
    * Meningitis
    * Skin infection around the eye (orbital cellulitis) 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * Your symptoms last longer than 10 to 14 days or you have a cold that gets worse after 7 days.
    * You have a severe headache that is not relieved by over-the-counter pain medicine.
    * You have a fever.
    * You still have symptoms after taking all of your antibiotics properly.
    * You have any changes in your vision during a sinus infection.

A green or yellow discharge does not mean that you definitely have a sinus
infection or need antibiotics.

## Prevention

The best way to prevent sinusitis is to avoid colds and flu or treat problems
quickly.

    * Eat plenty of fruits and vegetables, which are rich in antioxidants and other chemicals that could boost your immune system and help your body resist infection.
    * Get an influenza vaccine each year.
    * Reduce stress.
    * Wash your hands often, particularly after shaking hands with others. 

Other tips for preventing sinusitis:

    * Avoid smoke and pollutants.
    * Drink plenty of fluids to increase moisture in your body.
    * Take decongestants during an upper respiratory infection.
    * Treat allergies quickly and appropriately.
    * Use a humidifier to increase moisture in your nose and sinuses. 

## Alternative Names

Acute sinusitis; Sinus infection; Sinusitis - acute; Sinusitis - chronic;
Rhinosinusitis

## Images

    * ![Sinuses](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1108t.jpg)Sinuses
    * ![Sinusitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19315t.jpg)Sinusitis
    * ![Chronic sinusitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19356t.jpg)Chronic sinusitis

## References

DeMuri GP, Wald ER. Sinusitis. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds.
_Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 63.

Murr AH. Approach to the patient with nose, sinus, and ear disorders. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 426.

Pappas DE, Hendley JO. Sinusitis. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW,
Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 380.

Rosenfeld RM, Piccirillo JF, Chandrasekhar SS, et al. Clinical practice
guideline (update): adult sinusitis. _Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg_. 2015;152(2
Suppl):S1-S39. PMID: 25832968 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25832968.

## Review Date 5/17/2018

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Sinusitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Sinusitis2_thumb.jpg)Sinusitis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

