Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003051.htm    
                                Description: A stuffy or congested nose occurs when the tissues lining the nose become swollen. The swelling is due to inflamed blood vessels.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Stuffy or runny nose - children

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003051.htm

# Stuffy or runny nose - children

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A stuffy or congested nose occurs when the tissues lining the nose become
swollen. The swelling is due to inflamed blood vessels.

The problem may also include nasal discharge or "runny nose." If excess mucus
runs down the back of your throat (postnasal drip), it may cause a cough or
sore throat.

## Considerations

Most of the time, nasal congestion in older children and adolescents is not
serious by itself, but can cause other problems.

When nasal stuffiness is just on one side, the child may have inserted
something into the nose.

Nasal congestion can interfere with the ears, hearing, and speech development.
Congestion that is very bad may interfere with sleep.

The mucous drainage may plug up the eustachian tube between the nose and the
ear, causing an ear infection and pain. The mucous drip may also plug the
sinus passages, causing sinus infection and pain.

## Causes

A stuffy or runny nose may be caused by:

    * Common cold
    * Flu
    * Sinus infection

The congestion typically goes away by itself within a week.

Congestion also can be caused by:

    * Hay fever or other allergies 
    * Use of some nasal sprays or drops bought without a prescription for more than 3 days (may make nasal stuffiness worse) 
    * Nasal polyps, sac-like growths of inflamed tissue lining the nose or sinuses
    * Pregnancy 
    * Vasomotor rhinitis
    * Small objects in the nostril

## Home Care

Tips to help infants and younger children include:

    * Raise the head of your child's bed. Put a pillow underneath the head of the mattress. Or, place books or boards under the legs at the head of the bed. 
    * Older children may drink extra fluids, but those fluids should be sugar-free. 
    * You can try a cool-mist vaporizer, but avoid putting too much moisture in the room. Clean the vaporizer every day with bleach or Lysol. 
    * You can also steam up the bathroom shower and bring your child in there before bed. 

A nasal wash can help remove mucus from your child's nose.

    * You can buy a saline spray at a drugstore or make one at home. To make one, use 1 cup (240 milliliters) of warm water, 1/2 teaspoon (3 grams) of salt, and a pinch of baking soda.
    * Use gentle saline nasal sprays 3 to 4 times per day. 

If your child has allergies:

    * Your health care provider may also prescribe nasal sprays that treat allergy symptoms.
    * Learn how to avoid triggers that make allergies worse. 

Nasal sprays are not recommended for children under age 2. Don't use over-the-
counter nasal sprays more often than 3 days on and 3 days off, unless told to
by your provider.

You can buy cough and cold medicines without a prescription. They do not seem
to be effective in children.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call the provider if your child has any of the following:

    * A stuffy nose with swelling of the forehead, eyes, side of the nose, or cheek, or that occurs with blurred vision 
    * More throat pain, or white or yellow spots on the tonsils or other parts of the throat
    * Discharge from the nose that has a bad smell, comes from only one side, or is a color other than white or yellow
    * Cough that lasts longer than 10 days, or produces yellow-green or gray mucus
    * Symptoms that last more than 3 weeks 
    * Nasal discharge with fever

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your child's provider may perform a physical exam that focuses on the ears,
nose, throat, and airways.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Allergy tests skin and blood tests 
    * Blood tests (such as CBC or blood differential) 
    * Sputum culture and throat culture
    * X-rays of the sinuses and chest x-ray
    * CT scan of the head

## Alternative Names

Nose - congested; Congested nose; Runny nose; Postnasal drip; Rhinorrhea

## Patient Instructions

    * Colds and the flu - what to ask your doctor - adult
    * Colds and the flu - what to ask your doctor - child
    * When your baby or infant has a fever

## Images

    * ![Throat anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1118t.jpg)Throat anatomy
    * ![Runny and stuffy nose](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19674t.jpg)Runny and stuffy nose

## References

Lopez SMC, Williams JV. Rhinoviruses. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ,
Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics._ 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;2020:chap 290.

McGann KA, Long SS. Respiratory tract symptom complexes. In: Long SS, Prober
CG, Fischer M, eds. _Principles and Practice of Pediatric Infectious
Diseases_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 21.

Milgrom H, Sicherer SH. Allergic rhinitis. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum
NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics._ 21st
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;2020:chap 168.

## Review Date 7/11/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Allergy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Allergy_thumb.jpg)Allergy _Read
more_

![Common Cold](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CommonCold_thumb.jpg)Common Cold
_Read more_

![Nose Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NoseInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Nose
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

