Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001331.htm    
                                Description: Trichomoniasis is a sexually transmitted infection caused by the parasite Trichomonas vaginalis.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Trichomoniasis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001331.htm

# Trichomoniasis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Trichomoniasis is a sexually transmitted infection caused by the parasite
_Trichomonas vaginalis._

## Causes

Trichomoniasis ("trich") is found worldwide. In the United States, most cases
occur in women between ages 16 and 35. _Trichomonas vaginalis_ is spread
through sexual contact with an infected partner, eitherÂ through penis-to-
vagina intercourse or vulva-to-vulva contact. The parasite cannot survive in
the mouth or rectum.

The disease can affect both men and women, but the symptoms differ. The
infection usually does not cause symptoms in men and goes away on its own in a
few weeks.

## Symptoms

Women may have these symptoms:

    * Discomfort with intercourse
    * Itching of the inner thighs
    * Vaginal discharge (thin, greenish-yellow, frothy or foamy)
    * VaginalÂ or vulvar itching, or swelling of the labia
    * Vaginal odor (foul or strong smell)

Men who have symptoms may have:

    * Burning after urination or ejaculation
    * Itching of urethra
    * Slight discharge from urethra

Occasionally, some men with trichomoniasis may develop:

    * Swelling and irritation in the prostate gland (prostatitis).
    * Swelling in the epididymis (epididymitis), the tube that connects the testicle with the vas deferens. The vas deferens connects the testicles to the urethra.

## Exams and Tests

In women, a pelvic examination shows red blotches on the vaginal wall or
cervix. Examining the vaginal discharge under a microscope may show signs of
inflammation or infection-causing germs in vaginal fluids. A Pap smear may
also diagnose the condition, but is not required for diagnosis.

The disease can be hard to diagnose in men. Men are treated if the infection
is diagnosed in any of their sexual partners. They may also be treated if they
keep having symptoms of urethral burning or itching, even after getting
treatment for gonorrhea and chlamydia.

## Treatment

Antibiotics are commonly used to cure the infection.

DO NOT drink alcohol while taking the medicine and for 48 hours afterward.
Doing so can cause:

    * Severe nausea
    * Abdominal pain
    * Vomiting

Avoid sexual intercourse until you have finished treatment. Your sexual
partners should be treated at the same time, even if they have no symptoms. If
you have been diagnosed with a sexually transmitted infection (STI), you
should be screened for other STIs.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

With proper treatment, you are likely to fully recover.

## Possible Complications

Long-term infection may cause changes in the tissue on the cervix. These
changes may be seen on a routine Pap smear. Treatment should be started and
the Pap smear repeated 3 to 6 months later.

Treating trichomoniasis helps prevent it from spreading to sexual partners.
Trichomoniasis is common among people with HIV/AIDS.

This condition has been linked to prematureÂ delivery in pregnant women. More
research about trichomoniasis in pregnancy is still needed.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have any unusual vaginal discharge or
irritation.

Also call if you suspect that you have been exposed to the disease.

## Prevention

Practicing safer sex can help reduce the risk of sexually transmitted
infections, including trichomoniasis.

Other than total abstinence, condoms remain the best and most reliable
protection against sexually transmitted infections. Condoms must be used
consistently and correctly to be effective.

## Alternative Names

Trichomonas vaginitis; STD - trichomonas vaginitis; STI - trichomonas
vaginitis; Sexually transmitted infection - trichomonas vaginitis; Cervicitis
- trichomonas vaginitis

## Images

    * ![Normal uterine anatomy \(cut section\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8608t.jpg)Normal uterine anatomy (cut section)

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Trichomoniasis.
www.cdc.gov/std/tg2015/trichomoniasis.htm. Updated August 12, 2016. Accessed
January 3, 2019.

McCormack WM, Augenbraun MH. Vulvovaginitis and cervicitis. In: Bennett JE,
Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and
Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 110.

Telford SR, Krause PJ. Babesiosis and other protozoan diseases. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 353.

## Review Date 12/1/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Trichomoniasis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Trichomoniasis_thumb.jpg)Trichomoniasis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

