Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/laparoscopy/    
                                Description: A laparoscopy is a minimally invasive surgery that checks for problems in the abdomen or a woman&#39;s reproductive organs. Laparoscopic surgery uses small incisions, which allows for less pain and faster recovery. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Laparoscopy

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/laparoscopy/

# Laparoscopy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a laparoscopy?

A laparoscopy is a type of surgery that checks for problems in the abdomen or
a woman's reproductive system. Laparoscopic surgery uses a thin tube called a
laparoscope. It is inserted into the abdomen through a small incision. An
incision is a small a cut made through the skin during surgery. The tube has a
camera attached to it. The camera sends images to a video monitor. This allows
a surgeon to view the inside of the body without major trauma to the patient.

Laparoscopy is known as minimally invasive surgery. It allows for shorter
hospital stays, faster recovery, less pain, and smaller scars than traditional
(open) surgery.

Other names: diagnostic laparoscopy, laparoscopic surgery

## What is it used for?

For people with abdominal symptoms, laparoscopic surgery may be used to
diagnose:

    * Tumors and other growths
    * Blockages
    * Unexplained bleeding
    * Infections

For women, it may be used to diagnose and/or treat:

    *  **Fibroids**, growths that form inside or outside the uterus. Most fibroids are noncancerous.
    *  **Ovarian cysts**, fluid-filled sacs that form inside or on the surface of an ovary.
    *  **Endometriosis**, a condition in which tissue that normally lines the uterus grows outside of it.
    *  **Pelvic prolapse**, a condition in which the reproductive organs drop into or out of the vagina.

It may also be used to:

    *  **Remove anectopic pregnancy**, a pregnancy that grows outside the uterus. A fertilized egg can't survive an ectopic pregnancy. It can be life threatening for a pregnant woman.
    *  **Perform ahysterectomy**, the removal of the uterus. A hysterectomy may be done to treat cancer, abnormal bleeding, or other disorders.
    *  **Perform atubal ligation**, a procedure used to prevent pregnancy by blocking a woman's fallopian tubes.
    *  **Treatincontinence**, accidental or involuntary urine leakage.

The surgery is sometimes used when a physical exam and/or imaging tests, such
as x-rays or ultrasounds, don't give enough information to make a diagnosis.

## Why do I need a laparoscopy?

You may need a laparoscopy if you:

    * Have severe and/or chronic pain in your abdomen or pelvis
    * Feel a lump in your abdomen
    * Have abdominal cancer. Laparoscopic surgery can remove some types of cancer.
    * Are a woman with heavier than normal menstrual periods
    * Are a woman who wants a surgical form of birth control
    * Are a woman having trouble getting pregnant. A laparoscopy can be used to check for blockages in the fallopian tubes and other conditions that can affect fertility.

## What happens during a laparoscopy?

Laparoscopic surgery is usually done in a hospital or outpatient clinic. It
usually includes the following steps:

    * You will remove your clothing and put on a hospital gown.
    * You will lay on an operating table.
    * Most laparoscopies are done while you are under general anesthesia. General anesthesia is a medicine that makes you unconscious. It makes sure you won't feel any pain during the surgery. You will be given the medicine through an intravenous (IV) line or by inhaling gases from a mask. A specially trained doctor called an anesthesiologist will give you this medicine
    * If you are not given general anesthesia, a medicine will be injected in your abdomen to numb the area so you won't feel any pain.
    * Once you are unconscious or your abdomen is completely numb, your surgeon will make a small incision just below your belly button, or near that area.
    * The laparoscope, a thin tube with a camera attached, will be inserted through the incision.
    * More small incisions may be made if a probe or other surgical tools are needed. A probe is a surgical instrument used to explore internal areas of the body.
    * During the procedure, a type of gas will be put into your abdomen. This expands the area, making it easier for the surgeon to see inside your body.
    * The surgeon will move the laparoscope around the area. He or she will view the images of the abdomen and pelvic organs on a computer screen.
    * After the procedure is done, the surgical tools and most of the gas will be removed. The small incisions will be closed up.
    * You will be moved to a recovery room.
    * You may feel sleepy and/or nauseous for a few hours after the laparoscopy.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

If you will be getting general anesthesia, you may need to fast (not eat or
drink) for six or more hours before your surgery. You may not even be able to
drink water during this period. Ask your health care provider about specific
instructions. Also, if you are getting general anesthesia, be sure to arrange
for someone to drive you home. You may be groggy and confused after you wake
up from the procedure.

In addition, you should wear loose-fitting clothes. Your abdomen may feel a
little sore after the surgery.

## Are there any risks to the test?

Many people have mild abdominal pain or discomfort afterward. Serious problems
are uncommon. But they can include bleeding at the incision site and
infection.

## What do the results mean?

Your results may include diagnosing and/or treating one of the following
conditions:

    * Endometriosis
    * Fibroids
    * Ovarian cysts
    * Ectopic pregnancy

In some cases, your provider may remove a piece of tissue to test for cancer.

If you have questions about your results, talk to your health care provider.

## References

    1. ACOG: Womenâs Healthcare Physicians [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists; c2018. FAQ: Laparoscopy; 2015 Jul [cited 2018 Nov 28]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.acog.org/Patients/FAQs/Laparoscopy
    2. Allina Health [Internet]. Minneapolis: Allina Health; Laparoscopy [cited 2018 Nov 28]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://wellness.allinahealth.org/library/content/0/6564
    3. ASCRS: American Society of Colon and Rectal Surgeons [Internet]. Oakbrook Terrace (IL): American Society of Colon and Rectal Surgeons; Laparoscopic Surgery: What is it? [cited 2018 Nov 28]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.fascrs.org/patients/disease-condition/laparoscopic-surgery-what-it
    4. Brigham Health: Brigham and Womenâs Hospital [Internet]. Boston: Brigham and Womenâs Hospital; c2018. Laparoscopy [cited 2018 Nov 28]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.brighamandwomens.org/obgyn/minimally-invasive-gynecologic-surgery/laparoscopy
    5. Cleveland Clinic [Internet]. Cleveland (OH): Cleveland Clinic; c2018. Female Pelvic Laparoscopy: Overview [cited 2018 Nov 28]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://my.clevelandclinic.org/health/treatments/4819-female-pelvic-laparoscopy
    6. Cleveland Clinic [Internet]. Cleveland (OH): Cleveland Clinic; c2018. Female Pelvic Laparoscopy: Procedure Details [cited 2018 Nov 28]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://my.clevelandclinic.org/health/treatments/4819-female-pelvic-laparoscopy/procedure-details
    7. Cleveland Clinic [Internet]. Cleveland (OH): Cleveland Clinic; c2018. Female Pelvic Laparoscopy: Risks/Benefits [cited 2018 Nov 28]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://my.clevelandclinic.org/health/treatments/4819-female-pelvic-laparoscopy/risks--benefits
    8. Endometriosis.org [Internet]. Endometriosis.org; c2005â2018. Laparoscopy: before and after tips [updated 2015 Jan 11; cited 2018 Nov 28]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: http://endometriosis.org/resources/articles/laparoscopy-before-and-after-tips
    9. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2018. Ectopic pregnancy: Symptoms and causes; 2018 May 22 [cited 2018 Nov 28]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/ectopic-pregnancy/symptoms-causes/syc-20372088
    10. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2018. General anesthesia: About; 2017 Dec 29 [cited 2018 Nov 28]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/tests-procedures/anesthesia/about/pac-20384568
    11. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2018. Minimally invasive surgery: About; 2017 Dec 30 [cited 2018 Nov 28]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/tests-procedures/minimally-invasive-surgery/about/pac-20384771
    12. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2018. Pelvic organ prolapse: Symptoms and causes; 2017 Oct 5 [cited 2018 Nov 28]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/pelvic-organ-prolapse/symptoms-causes/syc-20360557
    13. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co. Inc.; c2018. Laparoscopy [cited 2018 Nov 28]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.merckmanuals.com/home/digestive-disorders/diagnosis-of-digestive-disorders/laparoscopy
    14. Merriam-Webster [Internet]. Springfield (MA): Merriam Webster; c2018. Probe: noun; [cited 2018 Dec 6]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/probe
    15. Mount Nittany Health [Internet]. Mount Nittany Health; Why Laparoscopy Is Done [cited 2018 Nov 28]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mountnittany.org/articles/healthsheets/7455
    16. SAGES [Internet]. Los Angeles: Society of American Gastrointestinal and Endoscopic Surgeons; Diagnostic Laparoscopy Patient Information from SAGES [updated 2015 Mar 1; cited 2018 Nov 28]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.sages.org/publications/patient-information/patient-information-for-diagnostic-laparoscopy-from-sages
    17. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida Health; c2018. Diagnostic laparoscopy: Overview [updated 2018 Nov 28; cited 2018 Nov 28]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/diagnostic-laparoscopy
    18. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2018. Health Encyclopedia: Hysterectomy [cited 2018 Nov 28]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=92&contentid=p07777
    19. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2018. Health Encyclopedia: Laparoscopy [cited 2018 Nov 28]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=92&contentid=P07779
    20. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Health Information: Anesthesia: Topic Overview; [updated 2018 Mar 29; cited 2018 Dec 17]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/special/anesthesia/tp17798.html#tp17799
    21. UW Medicine [Internet]. University of Washington; c2018. Laparoscopy [cited 2018 Nov 28]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwmedicine.org/health-library/pages/laparoscopy.aspx

## Related Health Topics

    * Abdominal Pain
    * Anesthesia
    * Benign Tumors
    * Ectopic Pregnancy
    * Endometriosis
    * Female Infertility
    * Hysterectomy
    * Ovarian Cysts
    * Pelvic Floor Disorders
    * Surgery
    * Tubal Ligation
    * Urinary Incontinence
    * Uterine Fibroids

## Related Lab Test Information

    * How to Understand Your Lab Results

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 25 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

