Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003779.htm    
                                Description: Transvaginal ultrasound is a test used to look at a woman    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Transvaginal ultrasound

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003779.htm

# Transvaginal ultrasound

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Transvaginal ultrasound is a test used to look at a woman's uterus, ovaries,
tubes, cervix and pelvic area.

Transvaginal means across or through the vagina. The ultrasound probe will be
placed inside the vagina.

## How the Test is Performed

You will lie down on your back on a table with your knees bent. Your feet may
be held in stirrups.

The ultrasound technician or doctor will introduce a probe into the vagina. It
may be mildly uncomfortable, but will not hurt. The probe is covered with a
condom and a gel.

    * The probe transmits sound waves and records the reflections of those waves off body structures. The ultrasound machine creates an image of the body part.
    * The image is displayed on the ultrasound machine. In many offices, the patient can see the image also.
    * The provider will gently move the probe around the area to see the pelvic organs.

In some cases, a special transvaginal ultrasound method called saline infusion
sonography (SIS) may be needed to more clearly view the uterus.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You will be asked to undress, usually from the waist down. A transvaginal
ultrasound is done with your bladder empty or partly filled.

## How the Test will Feel

In most cases, there is no pain. Some women may have mild discomfort from the
pressure of the probe. Only a small part of the probe is placed into the
vagina.

## Why the Test is Performed

Transvaginal ultrasound may be done for the following problems:

    * Abnormal findings on a physical exam, such as cysts, fibroid tumors, or other growths
    * Abnormal vaginal bleeding and menstrual problems
    * Certain types of infertility
    * Ectopic pregnancy
    * Pelvic pain

This ultrasound is also used during pregnancy.

## Normal Results

The pelvic structures or fetusÂ is normal.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An abnormal result may be due to many conditions. Some problems that may be
seen include:

    * Birth defects
    * Cancers of the uterus, ovaries, vagina, and other pelvic structures
    * Infection, including pelvic inflammatory disease
    * Benign growths in or around the uterus and ovaries (such as cysts or fibroids)
    * Endometriosis
    * Pregnancy outside of the uterus (ectopic pregnancy)
    * Twisting of the ovaries

## Risks

There are no known harmful effects of transvaginal ultrasound on humans.

Unlike traditional x-rays, there is no radiation exposure with this test.

## Alternative Names

Endovaginal ultrasound; Ultrasound - transvaginal; Fibroids - transvaginal
ultrasound; Vaginal bleeding - transvaginal ultrasound; Uterine bleeding -
transvaginal ultrasound; Menstrual bleeding - transvaginal ultrasound;
Infertility - transvaginal ultrasound; Ovarian - transvaginal ultrasound;
Abscess - transvaginal ultrasound

## Images

    * ![Ultrasound in pregnancy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23223t.jpg)Ultrasound in pregnancy
    * ![Female reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1112t.jpg)Female reproductive anatomy
    * ![Uterus](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19263t.jpg)Uterus
    * ![Transvaginal ultrasound](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9987t.jpg)Transvaginal ultrasound

## References

Brown D, Levine D. The uterus. In: Rumack CM, Levine D, eds. _Diagnostic
Ultrasound_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 15.

Coleman RL, Ramirez PT, Gershenson DM. Neoplastic diseases of the ovary:
screening, benign and malignant epithelial and germ cell neoplasms, sex-cord
stromal tumors. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds.
_Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 33.

Dolan MS, Hill C, Valea FA. Benign gynecologic lesions: vulva, vagina, cervix,
uterus, oviduct, ovary, ultrasound imaging of pelvic structures. In: Lobo RA,
Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 18.

## Review Date 4/19/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Ovarian
Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/OvarianCancer_thumb.jpg)Ovarian Cancer
_Read more_

![Ovarian Cysts](https://medlineplus.gov/images/OvarianCyst2_thumb.jpg)Ovarian
Cysts _Read more_

![Pelvic Pain](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PelvicPain_thumb.jpg)Pelvic Pain
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

