Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001503.htm    
                                Description: Mittelschmerz is one-sided, lower abdominal pain that affects some women. It occurs at or around the time when an egg is released from the ovaries (ovulation).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Mittelschmerz

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001503.htm

# Mittelschmerz

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Mittelschmerz is one-sided, lower abdominal pain that affects some women. It
occurs at or around the time when an egg is released from the ovaries
(ovulation).

## Causes

One inÂ fiveÂ women have pain around the time of ovulation. This is called
mittelschmerz. The pain may occur just before, during, or after ovulation.

This pain can be explained in several ways. Just before the ovulation, the
growth of the follicle where the egg develops may stretch the surface of the
ovary. This can cause pain. At the time of ovulation, fluid or blood is
released from the ruptured egg follicle. This may irritate lining of the
abdomen.

## Symptoms

Mittelschmerz may be felt on one side of the body during one month and then
switch to the other side during the next month. It may also occur on the same
side for many months in a row.

Symptoms include lower-abdominal pain that:

    * Occurs only on one side.
    * Goes on for minutes to a few hours. It can last up to 24 to 48 hours.
    * Feels like a sharp, cramping pain unlike other pain.
    * Severe (rare).
    * May switch sides from month to month.
    * Begins midway through the menstrual cycle.

## Exams and Tests

A pelvic exam shows no problems. Other tests (such as an abdominal ultrasound
or transvaginal pelvic ultrasound) may be done to look for other causes of
ovarian or pelvic pain. These tests may be done if the pain is ongoing. In
some cases, the ultrasound may show a collapsed ovarian follicle. This finding
helps support for the diagnosis.

## Treatment

Most of the time, treatment is not needed. Pain relievers may be needed if the
pain is intense or lasts a long time.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Mittelschmerz can be painful, but it is not harmful. It is not a sign of
disease. It may help women to be aware of the time in the menstrual cycle when
the egg is released. It is important for you to discuss any pain you are
having with your health care provider. There are other conditions that can
cause similar pain that are much more serious and require treatment.

## Possible Complications

Most of the time, there are no complications.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * Ovulation pain seems to change.
    * Pain lasts longer than usual.
    * Pain occurs with vaginal bleeding.

## Prevention

Birth control pills can be taken to prevent ovulation. This can help reduce
pain that is linked to ovulation.

## Alternative Names

Ovulation pain; Midcycle pain

## Images

    * ![Female reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9433t.jpg)Female reproductive anatomy

## References

Brown A. Obstetrics and gynaecology emergencies. In: Cameron P, Jelinek G,
Kelly A-M, Brown A, Little M, eds. _Textbook of Adult Emergency Medicine_. 4th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone; 2015:chap 19.

Chen JH. Acute and chronic pelvic pain. In: Mularz A, Dalati S, Pedigo R, eds.
_Ob/Gyn Secrets_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 16.

Harken AH. Priorities in evaluation of the acute abdomen. In: Harken AH, Moore
EE, eds. _Abernathy's Surgical Secrets_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2018:chap 12.

Moore KL, Persaud TVN, Torchia MG. First week of human development. In: Moore
KL, Persaud TVN, Torchia MG, eds. _The Developing Human_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 2.

## Review Date 3/28/2019

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Photograph of a woman clutching her stomach in
pain](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pain_thumb.jpg)Abdominal Pain _Read more_

![Menstruation](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Menstruation_thumb.jpg)Menstruation
_Read more_

![Pelvic Pain](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PelvicPain_thumb.jpg)Pelvic Pain
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

