Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003918.htm    
                                Description: Diagnostic laparoscopy is a procedure that allows a doctor to look directly at the contents of the abdomen or pelvis.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Diagnostic laparoscopy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003918.htm

# Diagnostic laparoscopy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Diagnostic laparoscopy is a procedure that allows a doctor to look directly at
the contents of the abdomen or pelvis.

## How the Test is Performed

The procedure is usually done in the hospital or outpatient surgical center
under general anesthesia (while you are asleep and pain-free). The procedure
is performed in the following way:

    * The surgeon makes a small cut (incision) below the belly button.
    * A needle or hollow tube called a trocar is inserted into the incision. Carbon dioxide gas is passed into the abdomen through the needle or tube. The gas helps expand the area, giving the surgeon more room to work, and helps the surgeon see the organs more clearly.
    * A tiny video camera (laparoscope) is then placed through the trocar and is used to see the inside of your pelvis and abdomen. More small cuts may be made if other instruments are needed to get a better view of certain organs.
    * If you are having gynecologic laparoscopy, dye may be injected into your cervix so the surgeon can view the fallopian tubes.
    * After the exam, the gas, laparoscope, and instruments are removed, and the cuts are closed. You will have bandages over those areas. 

## How to Prepare for the Test

Follow instructionsÂ on not eating and drinking before surgery.

You may need to stop taking medicines, including narcotic pain relievers, on
or before the day of the exam. DO NOT change or stop taking any medicines
without first talking to your health care provider.

Follow any other instructions for how to prepare for the procedure.

## How the Test will Feel

You will feel no pain during the procedure. Afterward, the incisions may be
sore. Your doctor may prescribe a pain reliever.

You may also have shoulder pain for a few days. The gas used during the
procedure can irritate the diaphragm, which shares some of the same nerves as
the shoulder. You may also have an increased urge to urinate, since the gas
can put pressure on the bladder.

You will recover for a few hours at the hospital before going home. You will
probably not stay overnight after a laparoscopy.

You will not be allowed to drive home. Someone should be available to take you
home after the procedure.

## Why the Test is Performed

Diagnostic laparoscopy is often done for the following:

    * Find the cause of pain or a growth in the abdomen and pelvic area when x-ray or ultrasound results aren't clear.
    * After an accident to see if there is injury to any organs in the abdomen.
    * Before procedures to treat cancer to find out if the cancer has spread. If so, treatment will change.

## Normal Results

The laparoscopy is normal if there is no blood in the abdomen, no hernias, no
intestinal obstruction, and no cancer in any visible organs. The uterus,
fallopian tubes, and ovaries are of normal size, shape, and color. The liver
is normal.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be due to a number of different conditions, including:

    * Scar tissue inside the abdomen or pelvis (adhesions)
    * Appendicitis
    * Cells from inside the uterus growing in other areas (endometriosis)
    * Inflammation of the gallbladder (cholecystitis)
    * Ovarian cysts or cancer of the ovary
    * Infection of the uterus, ovaries, or fallopian tubes (pelvic inflammatory disease)
    * Signs of injury
    * Spread of cancer
    * Tumors
    * Noncancerous tumors of the uterus such as fibroids

## Risks

There is a risk for infection. You may get antibiotics to prevent this
complication.

There is a risk of puncturing an organ. This could cause the contents of the
intestines to leak. There may also be bleeding into the abdominal cavity.
These complications could lead to immediate open surgery (laparotomy).

Diagnostic laparoscopy may not be possible if you have a swollen bowel, fluid
in the abdomen (ascites), or you have had a past surgery.

## Alternative Names

Laparoscopy - diagnostic; Exploratory laparoscopy

## Images

    * ![Pelvic laparoscopy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1109t.jpg)Pelvic laparoscopy
    * ![Female reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1112t.jpg)Female reproductive anatomy
    * ![Incision for abdominal laparoscopy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8830t.jpg)Incision for abdominal laparoscopy

## References

Falcone T, Walters MD. Diagnostic laparoscopy. In: Baggish MS, Karram MM, eds.
_Atlas of Pelvic Anatomy and Gynecologic Surgery_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 115.

Velasco JM, Ballo R, Hood K, Jolley J, Rinewalt D, Veenstra B. Exploratory
laparotomy â laparoscopic. In: Velasco JM, Ballo R, Hood K, Jolley J,
Rinewalt D, Veenstra B, consulting eds. _Essential Surgical Procedures_.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 1.

## Review Date 6/11/2018

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Photograph of a woman clutching her stomach in
pain](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pain_thumb.jpg)Abdominal Pain _Read more_

![Appendicitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Appendicitis2_thumb.jpg)Appendicitis
_Read more_

![Endometriosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Endometriosis2_thumb.jpg)Endometriosis
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

