Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002916.htm    
                                Description: Pelvic laparoscopy is surgery to examine pelvic organs. It uses a viewing tool called a laparoscope. The surgery is also used to treat certain diseases of the pelvic organs.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pelvic laparoscopy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002916.htm

# Pelvic laparoscopy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pelvic laparoscopy is surgery to examine pelvic organs. It uses a viewing tool
called a laparoscope. The surgery is also used to treat certain diseases of
the pelvic organs.

## Description

While you are deep asleep and pain-free under general anesthesia, the doctor
makes a half-inch (1.25 centimeters) surgical cut in the skin below the belly
button. Carbon dioxide gas is pumped into the abdomen to help the doctor see
the organs more easily.

The laparoscope, an instrument that looks like a small telescope with a light
and a video camera, is inserted so the doctor can view the area.

Other instruments may be inserted through other small cuts in the lower
abdomen. While watching a video monitor, the doctor is able to:

    * Get tissue samples (biopsy)
    * Look for the cause of any symptoms
    * Remove scar tissue or other abnormal tissue, such as from endometriosis
    * Repair or remove part or all of the ovaries or uterine tubes
    * Repair or remove parts of the uterus
    * Do other surgical procedures (such as appendectomy, removing lymph nodes) 

After the laparoscopy, the carbon dioxide gas is released, and the cuts are
closed.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Laparoscopy uses a smaller surgical cut than open surgery. Most people who
have this procedure are able to return home the same day. The smaller incision
also means that the recovery is faster. There is less blood loss with
laparoscopic surgery and less pain after surgery.

Pelvic laparoscopy is used both for diagnosis and treatment. It may be
recommended for:

    * An abnormal pelvic mass or ovarian cyst found using pelvic ultrasound
    * Cancer (ovarian, endometrial, or cervical) to see if it has spread, or to remove nearby lymph nodes or tissue
    * Chronic (long-term) pelvic pain, if no other cause has been found
    * Ectopic (tubal) pregnancy
    * Endometriosis
    * Difficulty getting pregnant or having a baby (infertility)
    * Sudden, severe pelvic pain 

A pelvic laparoscopy may also be done to:

    * Remove your uterus (hysterectomy)
    * Remove uterine fibroids (myomectomy)
    * "Tie" your tubes (tubal ligation/sterilization) 

## Risks

Risks for any pelvic surgery include:

    * Bleeding
    * Blood clots in the leg or pelvic veins, which could travel to the lungs and, rarely, be fatal
    * Breathing problems
    * Damage to nearby organs and tissues
    * Heart problems
    * Infection 

Laparoscopy is safer than an open procedure for correcting the problem.

## Before the Procedure

Always tell your health care provider:

    * If you are or could be pregnant
    * What drugs you are taking, even drugs, herbs, or supplements you bought without a prescription

During the days before surgery:

    * You may be asked to stop taking aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), warfarin (Coumadin), and any other drugs that make it hard for your blood to clot.
    * Ask your provider which medicines you can still take on the day of your surgery.
    * If you smoke, try to stop. Ask your provider for help.
    * Arrange for someone to drive you home after surgery.

On the day of your surgery:

    * You will usually be asked not to drink or eat anything after midnight the night before your surgery, or 8 hours before your surgery.
    * Take the drugs your provider told you to take with a small sip of water.
    * Your provider will tell you when to arrive at the hospital or clinic.

## After the Procedure

You will spend some time in a recovery area as you wake up from the
anesthesia.

Many people are able to go home the same day as the procedure. Sometimes, you
may need to stay overnight, depending on what surgery was done using the
laparoscope.

The gas pumped into the abdomen may cause abdominal discomfort for 1 to 2 days
after the procedure. Some people feel neck and shoulder pain for several days
after a laparoscopy because the carbon dioxide gas irritates the diaphragm. As
the gas is absorbed, this pain will go away. Lying down can help decrease the
pain.

You will get a prescription for pain medicine or be told what over-the-counter
pain medicines you can take.

You may go back to your normal activities within 1 to 2 days. However, DO NOT
lift anything over 10 pounds (4.5 kilograms) for 3 weeks after surgery to
decrease your risk of getting a hernia in your incisions.

Depending on what procedure is done, you can usually begin sexual activities
again as soon as any bleeding has stopped. If you have had a hysterectomy, you
need to wait a longer period before having sexual intercourse again. Ask your
provider what is recommended for the procedure you are having.

Call your provider if you have:

    * Bleeding from the vagina
    * Fever that does not go away
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Severe abdominal pain

## Alternative Names

Celioscopy; Band-aid surgery; Pelviscopy; Gynecologic laparoscopy; Exploratory
laparoscopy - gynecologic

## Images

    * ![Pelvic laparoscopy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1109t.jpg)Pelvic laparoscopy
    * ![Endometriosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17061t.jpg)Endometriosis
    * ![Pelvic adhesions](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17118t.jpg)Pelvic adhesions
    * ![Ovarian cyst](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9725t.jpg)Ovarian cyst
    * ![Pelvic laparoscopy - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/14012t.jpg)Pelvic laparoscopy - series

## References

Backes FJ, Cohn DE, Mannel RS, Fowler JM. Role of minimally invasive surgery
in gynecologic malignancies. In: DiSaia PJ, Creasman WT, Mannel RS, McMeekin
DS, Mutch DG, eds. _Clinical Gynecologic Oncology_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 21.

Burney RO, Giudice LC. Endometriosis. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser
DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 130.

Carlson SM, Goldberg J, Lentz GM. Endoscopy: hysteroscopy and laparoscopy:
indications, contraindications, and complications. In:Â Lobo RA, Gershenson
DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 10.

Ordon M, Eichel L, Landman J. Fundamentals of laparoscopic and robotic
urologic surgery. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds.
_Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 10.

## Review Date 1/14/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Endometriosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Endometriosis2_thumb.jpg)Endometriosis
_Read more_

![Endoscopy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Endoscopy_thumb.jpg)Endoscopy
_Read more_

![Female
Infertility](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FemaleInfertility_thumb.jpg)Female
Infertility _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

