

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Tuberculosis (TB)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syndicate

# TB NOTES

Minus

Related Pages

![](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_16/images/tbnotes-header.jpg)

**TB Notes 1, 2016** **March 30, 2016**

### Notes from the Director

Dear Colleague:  
The Division of Tuberculosis Elimination (DTBE) is delighted to release the
first issue of _TB Notes_  in over a year. We have made changes to the
newsletter with the hope that it will better serve the needs of our audience.
We have worked to make _TB Notes_  more concise and timely. The newsletter has
also received a facelift; we re-designed the _TB Notes_  template to provide a
refreshed look and to improve usability and navigation. We hope that you enjoy
the updated newsletter.  
In other news, we recently observed one of the most important annual events
for people working in TB control, World TB Day. This year, CDC promoted the
theme _**Unite to End TB**_.  In the days leading up to March 24th, CDC and
many others spoke out about successes in TB prevention and control, as well as
the challenges that hinder our progress. I hope all of you had a chance to
take part in your own World TB Day activities. DTBE staff organized a number
of events; you'll learn more about them in this issue of _TB Notes_.

Philip LoBue, MD, FACP, FCCP  
Director,  
Division of Tuberculosis Elimination  
National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention

Open All Close All

Highlights from State and Local Programs

##### **New England TB Hero Awards, 2015**

![](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_16/images/awardrecipient-
lynnsosa.jpg)

The New England TB Hero award was launched in 2008 by the New England
Tuberculosis Consortium to acknowledge individuals who embody the highest
qualities of public health care and service.  
Please join us in congratulating the two award recipients for the 2015 New
England TB Hero award: Kristin Magnussen, RN, MSN from Connecticut and Myrna
Leiper, RN, BSN from Massachusetts. Kris Magnussen is a Public Health Nurse at
the Ledge Light Health District in New London, Connecticut. Ms. Magnussen was
recognized for her work managing a difficult caseload of five patients with TB
disease, including one patient with multidrug-resistant TB, in her health
department's jurisdiction in 2014.  
Ms. Magnussen's experience with one of these patients, a woman with cavitary
TB in her ninth month of pregnancy, exemplifies her work as a TB hero. The
patient ultimately delivered her baby while still infectious and hospitalized;
the newborn came home before the patient. Ms. Magnussen made sure the baby's
grandmother received instruction on administration of the INH liquid for the
baby, visits from the local maternal child health nurse practitioner, and
education and training on care of the newborn. Ms. Magnussen made herself
available to the family at all times, including evenings and weekends, to
successfully earn the trust of the family. The TB controller from Connecticut,
Dr. Lynn Sosa adds, "Kris is the kind of person who never says 'no' and will
always find a way to ensure her patients are cared for in the best possible
manner. Connecticut is a safer, healthier place with Kris Magnussen here to
keep it that way!"

![](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_16/images/tbcontroller-
jennifercochran.jpg)

The second award recipient, Myrna Leiper, RN, BSN, is a public health nurse
with the Massachusetts Department of Public Health, based in the Western
Regional Office. Ms. Leiper was nominated by the Board of Health for the town
of Hubbardston, Massachusetts. Ms. Leiper was instrumental in helping the
Board of Health manage TB - the first case reported in recent years - by
empowering the Board and patient with necessary information. She also provided
hands-on support and training to the nurse responsible for case management.
Ms. Leiper assuaged fears of the patient and the town. She was extremely
helpful through the process and made herself readily available at all times of
the day for questions from the Board, as well as the patient. Tom Larson, the
Chairman of Hubbardston Board of Health, MA reiterates, "Ms. Leiper is one of
the most pleasant and caring people we have had the fortune of working with
and she is a true hero worthy of this award."

_Submitted by Lynn Sosa, MD, Connecticut Department of Public Health; Jennifer
Cochran, MPH, Massachusetts Department of Public Health; Arpita Jindani, MSW,
Global TB Institute; and Mark Lobato, MD, Division of Tuberculosis
Elimination, and the New England Tuberculosis Consortium_

##### **National Tuberculosis Controller Association Honors Dr. Mark Lobato
with Dixie Snyder Award**

![](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_16/images/awardrecipient-
marklobato.jpg)

The National Tuberculosis Controller Association recently honored Dr. Mark
Lobato with the Dixie Snyder Award for his commitment to helping state and
local TB programs meet their responsibilities and realize their potential
through collaboration. The Dixie Snyder Award recognizes a CDC employee who
has provided outstanding support, through partnership with a state or local
tuberculosis community, in the interest of tuberculosis control and
prevention.

Dr. Lobato began his career in public health in 1992 when he became an
Epidemic Intelligence Service (EIS) officer. After completing EIS in 1994, he
was a preventive medicine resident with the California Department of Health
Services where he characterized missed opportunities to prevent TB in
children.  At the completion of his preventive medicine residency, he left CDC
to complete a pediatric infectious diseases fellowship at the University of
California at San Francisco.

Dr. Lobato returned to CDC after his fellowship and joined the Division of
HIV/AIDS as a medical epidemiologist.  The following year, he joined the
Division of Tuberculosis Elimination (DTBE) as a medical officer. In 2005, Dr.
Lobato moved to Connecticut where he is currently assigned as the DTBE medical
officer for New England, and where he set to work collaborating with the six
state TB programs to develop capacity and learn the best practices for the
elimination of TB in low-incidence areas. He also provides medical
consultation to the six New England states and is a central figure in the
subsequent New England TB Consortium that was established.

Dr. Lobato is always finding new ways to strengthen connections and make new
ones.  While the Consortium calls began with just the primary staff from the
six New England TB Programs, he recognized the importance of bringing other
partners to these calls.  These monthly calls now include refugee/immigrant
coordinators and laboratory colleagues on a rotating schedule to discuss
issues and topics.

Dr. Lobato has been instrumental in establishing two webinar series in the
region, "TB Case by Case" and "TB Talk" which allowed the sharing of
experiences and best practices between healthcare providers and public health
practitioners throughout the region.  These efforts have resulted in TB
educational opportunities in the region being not only well-received but
sought after by both healthcare and public health practitioners.

Dr. Lobato exemplifies collaboration, coordination, and partnership.  While he
has been driven throughout his career in public health TB to reach out and
work with others, his last 10 years in New England have highlighted these
efforts.  The result is a lasting legacy of a TB Consortium that is stronger
because of this collaboration and Dr. Lobato's contributions.

_Submitted by Lynn Sosa, MD, Connecticut Department of Public Health_

##### **DTBE Staff Present at the North American Region/National Tuberculosis
Controllers Association Conference, 2016**

The North American Region/National Tuberculosis Controllers Association
(NAR/NTCA) Conference was held last month in Denver, Colorado. DTBE staff
contributed to the program by delivering the following presentations:

**Homelessness, Housing, and Tuberculosis: The National Picture**

Sapna Morris

**Drug Resistant Session**

Chairs: Sundari Mase and Barbara Seaworth

**Treatment of MDR in Pregnancy; Results of a Systematic Review**

Farah Parvez

**Low Level Rifampin Resistance: Diagnostic Challenges and Treatment
Outcomes**

Neha Shah

**The Impact of Genomics Era on Mycobacterium Tuberculosis Research**

James E. Posey

**Surveillance for Large Outbreaks of Tuberculosis in the United States, 2014
-2015**

Thomas Navin

**Cost-effectiveness of Targeted Testing and Treatment for Latent Tuberculosis
Infection among Foreign-born Persons in the United States**

Jessica Yeats, Ricardo Basurto-Davila, Brian Baker

**Poster: High Rates of Tuberculosis Disease Among B1 Immigrants from the
Philippines to Hawaii, 2010 -2014**

Kristine Schmit, Richard Brostrom, Alexandra Pyan, Angela Largen, Zanju Wang,
Sundari Mase, Sapna Morris

**Poster: Evaluation of Hemoglobin A1c Levels in Diabetic Tuberculosis
Patients in Hawaii**

Alexandra Pyan, Richard Brostrom

**Poster: Growth of TB Clusters in the United States, 2011 --2014**

Sandy Althomsons, Krista Powell, Anne Marie France, Thomas Navin

**Poster: Tuberculosis Infection among Foreign-born Persons by Country of
Birth, United States, 2011-2012**

Rachel Yelk Woodruff, Andrew Hill, Roque Miramontes

**Poster: Geospatial Hotspot Analysis of Latent Tuberculosis Infection --
Connecticut, 2010−2014**

Mark N. Lobato, Jocelyn Mullins, Kelley Bemis, Lynn Sosa

**Poster: Reactivation Risk of Latent Tuberculosis Infection by Population
Subgroup: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis**

Jessica Yeats, Sheena Patel, Ricardo Basurto-Davila, Priya Shete, Adithya
Cattamanchi, Brian Baker"

**Poster: A Contact Investigation for Three Recent Cases in the Large TB
Outbreak within the Homeless Communities of Los Angeles County, California**

Lauren Linde, Shameer Poonja, Condessa Curley, Jo Kay Ghosh, Peter R. Kerndt,
Alicia H. Chang

_Submitted by Carla Winston, PhD, DTBE_

TB Education and Training Network (TB ETN) Updates

 **TB Education and Training Network Conference, September 2016**

The TB Education and Training Network (TB ETN) and TB Program Evaluation
Network Conference (TB PEN) will be held in Atlanta, Georgia, September 20-22,
2016.

Conference information will be available in late March on the TB ETN webpage.

_Submitted by Peri Hopkins, MPH, DTBE_

TB Trials Consortium (TBTC) Updates

 **Recent TBTC Activities**

The TB Trials Consortium has been active in the past year. Thanks to strong
support from U.S. TB programs and from the Division and Center leadership,
this group of domestic and international sites continues to pursue its aims to
shorten and simplify TB prevention and control. The current group of sites are
funded through 2019, and include clinical locations in the United States,
Spain, Peru, Uganda, Kenya, South Africa, Vietnam, and Hong Kong. Recent and
current activities include the following:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * TBTC Study 31 (ACTG A5349): This large (2500 patients) phase 3 trial is just beginning to enroll. It is being implemented as a collaboration between TBTC and the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases' Adult AIDS Clinical Trials Group (ACTG). It aims to demonstrate the non-inferiority of 4-month regimen using high-dose daily rifapentine and moxifloxacin. The study will enroll at over 40 sites worldwide.  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * TBTC Study 32 ("Opti-Q"): This phase 2 study is about 50% enrolled. It is being implemented as a collaboration with Dr. R. Horsburgh and Boston University. It aims to determine the optimal dose of levofloxacin in the treatment of MDR TB, using pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic measures of efficacy.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * TBTC Study 33 ("iAdhere"): This phase 4 prevention trial has been completed, and a final report is in clearance. It compared adherence among three approaches to the use of the 12-dose latent TB infection (LTBI) 3HP regimen: DOT, SAT (self-administered therapy), and SAT enhanced by text messaging. Results were presented at the Conference on Retroviruses and Opportunistic Infections in 2015: self-administration resulted in modest declines in adherence, but it is likely that this will prove acceptable to many U.S. programs, since the LTBI treatment completion rate nationally has been hovering around 50% with the 9-month isoniazid regimen.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * TBTC Study 34 (ACTG A5295): This phase 3 diagnostic study assessed the performance of the Gene Xpert PCR diagnostic in the United States and internationally. It was implemented with ACTG leading, and TBTC assisting with enrollment in the U.S. The study has been completed, and published results appeared online with _Clinical Infectious Diseases_ in February 2016.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * TBTC Study 35: This is a phase 2 study of the pharmacokinetics of rifapentine in infants and young children, using a newly-developed child-friendly water-dispersible mango-flavored formulation produced by Sanofi. The trial will be implemented in South Africa and is slated to begin enrollment in late 2016. If successful, the goal is international licensure of a child-friendly formulation for both pediatric contacts and pediatric TB cases.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * TBTC Study 36: This is an observational study of standard TB treatment, designed to run when other treatment trials are not in progress, in order to provide a platform for important sub-studies or specimen collection efforts. Study 36 has enrolled over 200 patients in the past year, as preparations for Study 31 were underway. It has provided specimens for half a dozen "platform studies," and has provided biomarker specimens that will satisfy half of TBTC's commitment to participate in an international biomarker banking activity led by the Gates-funded TB Alliance (see below).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * TBTC Study 36A: This study provides specimens from patients enrolled in Study 36 or in Study 31 to the TB Alliance Biomarker Bank effort, also known as Consortium for TB Biomarkers (CTB2).This bank, being created by the joint efforts of the TB Alliance, the TBTC, and the ACTG, will allow investigators world-wide to access critically needed TB patient specimens. These specimens will be used for the development of a TB treatment biomarker which could simplify and accelerate the pace of TB clinical trials. The specimen bank is administered by a steering committee which includes representatives from the three contributing groups.

TBTC clinical trials are all registered at ClinicalTrials.govExternal prior to
beginning; more information on most trials can be found there or on the TBTC
webpage.

The TBTC had its annual Divisional review at CDC (the "SAGE" meeting) on March
8, 2016.

On May 23-25, 2016 TBTC will hold its 35th semiannual meeting in Atlanta.Those
interested to attend should contact Ms. Barbara DeCausey (404-639-5330;
tbtcresearchadmin@cdc.gov).

_Submitted by Barbara DeCausey, MPH, MBA, DTBE_

Communications, Education, and Behavioral Studies Branch Updates

 **The International Union against Tuberculosis and Lung Disease, North
American Region, Honors Dr. Wanda Walton 's Contributions to TB Prevention,
Diagnosis, and Care**

The International Union against Tuberculosis and Lung Disease, North American
Region recently honored Dr. Wanda Walton with the Lifetime Achievement Award
in recognition of her outstanding commitment to TB prevention, control, and
care during her career.

After earning her Masters of Education degree with a focus on Community
Health, Dr. Walton began her career working for the DeKalb County Health
Department in Atlanta, Georgia in 1979. Serving first as an Epidemiologist and
then as a Senior Health Educator, Dr. Walton quickly learned the importance of
education as a means to control and eliminate disease and went on to complete
a Doctorate in Philosophy, majoring in Health Education/Health
Promotion/Health Behavior, from the University of Alabama at Birmingham in
2003.

In 1989, Dr. Walton joined the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention's (CDC) Division of Tuberculosis Control (now DTBE) as the first
TB/HIV Health Education Specialist. Charged with the task of developing
training materials for healthcare providers, Dr. Walton soon recognized the
need to develop accurate and up-to-date materials for patients, their
families, and communities, as well. In addition to developing and testing the
Division's first patient brochures, Dr. Walton proposed and led the
development of the Self-Study Modules on Tuberculosis. Following nation-wide
distribution through print-based modules, satellite-based educational
sessions, and CDC's first e-learning website, this 9-module series was lauded
among TB programs in the United States and across the globe. The first edition
of the Self-Study Modules were presented a Freddie Award, known as the "Oscar
of Medicine," in the category of Infectious Diseases at the 1999 International
Health & Medical Film Competition, and were recognized for excellence in
media, communication, and training design from the prestigious International
Society for Improved Performance. The series has been so well received since
its inception that TB programs worldwide continue to use, translate, and adapt
the materials to train new staff.

![](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_16/images/awardrecipient-
wandawalton.jpg)

Dr. Walton continues to support, inspire, and mentor providers and educators
in programs across North America and around the globe to enhance their
capacities to produce and share relevant, high-quality TB education and
training tools and resources. In direct response to the 1999 National
Strategic Plan for TB Education and Training, Dr. Walton and her staff
spearheaded the creation of the Tuberculosis Education and Training Network
(TB ETN) in 2000 to bring TB professionals together to network, share
resources, and build education and training skills. She also led the
development of the Find TB Resources website, a one-stop site for TB education
and training resources.

Dr. Walton's steadfast belief in the importance of education as a means to
eliminate TB has and continues to influence critical decisions on policy and
funding related to TB education and training in the United States and
internationally. Those who have had the pleasure to work alongside her cannot
help but adopt for their own her oft repeated sentiment, "Efficient TB
programs are not run by poorly trained or poorly educated staff."

_Submitted by Joan Mangan, PhD, DTBE_

**World TB Day 2016**

This year, DTBE selected _**Unite to**_ _**End TB  **_as the 2016 World TB Day
theme _.  _ In doing so, DTBE highlighted the significant progress that is
being made toward ending TB every day, such as testing and treating high risk
populations for latent TB infection, improving diagnostics and treatments,
improving surveillance efforts, and educating health care providers to "Think
TB."

DTBE remains committed to supporting the important work that is being done to
eliminate TB in communities around the United States. The division launched a
project to highlight stories of success in TB prevention and control. The CDC
U.S. TB Elimination Champions provided an opportunity to recognize
accomplishments and learn best practices from organizations and people who are
making a significant contribution toward ending TB in their community. Success
stories were posted on the CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions page during the
week of World TB Day. Learn more about those who are working toward TB
elimination.

_Submitted by Dana Tumblin, MMC, DTBE_

Data Management, Statistics, and Evaluation Branch (proposed) Updates

 **The Program Evaluation Team Joins the Data Management and Statistics
Branch**

Program Evaluation is a vital component of TB program activities. The Field
Services Branch (FSB) (proposed) within DTBE has included a Program Evaluation
Team for a number of years. The primary goals of the Team were to ensure
implementation of the key provisions of program evaluation outlined in the
cooperative agreement CDC has with external state and local programs; to
provide transparent and easily understood program evaluation information to TB
control programs that would serve them in meeting TB national goals and
objectives; to galvanize TB control programs to implement and use the National
TB Indicators Project (NTIP) to prioritize program areas for improvement; and
to foster greater accountability for performance in TB control and activities.

In 2015, the Program Evaluation Team was augmented with health economics
expertise, renamed the Program Evaluation and Health Economics Team, and moved
to the Data Management, Statistics, and Evaluation Branch (DMSEB) (proposed).
The integration of these two functions will provide a broader level of support
and expertise that will continue to focus on critical evaluation functions
while providing additional expertise to internal and external partners.

In conjunction with this change, Maureen Kolasa, RN, MPH will serve as the
Team Lead for the Program Evaluation and Health Economics Team and will be the
primary DTBE point of contact for program evaluation activities beginning
March 21, 2016. Ms.  Kolasa can be reached via email at mxk2@cdc.gov.

_Submitted by David Wilson, MEd, DTBE_

Laboratory Branch Updates

 **Laboratory Leadership Service Fellow Joins DTBE 's Laboratory Branch**

Sheila Akinyi Okoth, Ph.D., joined DTBE's Laboratory Branch (LB) in July 2015
as an inaugural member of the Laboratory Leadership Service (LLS) fellowship
class. The LLS is a 2-year laboratory fellowship that provides early career
laboratory scientists with high-quality training that focuses on biosafety,
quality management systems, and management and leadership competencies and
includes a unique curriculum, core activities for learning, and mentorship to
focus on the requirements of public health laboratories. Sheila is assigned to
the Reference Laboratory Team (RLT), a Clinical Laboratory Improvement
Amendments (CLIA)-regulated laboratory where she is being mentored by Dr.
Beverly Metchock, RLT Team Lead, and Lois Diem, LB Quality Management Officer.

Sheila is working alongside Lois Diem to continue implementation of Quality
Management Systems (QMS) including biosafety across LB research, clinical
service, and technical consultation activities. The LB is one of five
laboratories participating in a pilot project coordinated by the Office of the
Associate Director of Laboratory Science and Safety with the purpose of
attaining accreditation to ISO 17025.

Sheila is also working with the LB Laboratory Capacity Team, the
Communications Team within the Communications, Education, and Behavioral
Studies Branch, and the Association of Public Health Laboratories to develop
an educational module that covers molecular diagnostics for TB drug resistance
for a non-technical audience. The purpose of this module is to provide
individuals involved in patient management and public health with an overview
of mutations associated with TB drug resistance, molecular tests used to
detect these mutations, and information to assist with interpretation of
molecular testing results.

Other projects in which Sheila is involved include conducting Biological Risk
Assessments and participating in CDC-wide workgroups such as the Next
Generation Sequencing Quality Workgroup and the CDC Laboratory Biosafety
Training Project.

Prior to joining LB, Sheila worked as a post-doctoral fellow in the Malaria
Branch of the Division of Parasitic Diseases and Malaria at the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention.  She received her B.S. in Biology from the
State University of New York, College of Cortland and her Ph.D. in Immunology
and Molecular Pathogenesis from Emory University. She anticipates that upon
completion of the LLS fellowship, she will be well trained in the highest
standards of safety and quality management.

_Submitted by Sheila Akinyi Okoth, PhD, DTBE_

Surveillance Epidemiology and Outbreak Investigations Branch Updates

 **An Updated Strategic Direction for TB Surveillance**

Dr. Adam Langer has recently joined the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and
Outbreak Investigations Branch as the Surveillance Team Lead. Moving into 2016
with a new Team Lead, the Surveillance Team had the opportunity to develop a
formal strategic plan to align with the National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral
Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention (NCHHSTP)Cdc-pdf and DTBE Strategic Plans.

The Surveillance Team's Strategic Plan has a 5-year horizon, with three goals
to be achieved from 2016-2020:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * To revise the Report of Verified Case of TB (RVCT) to better capture U.S. TB epidemiology data;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * To promote increased and innovative use of surveillance data to better understand evolving TB epidemiology; and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * To implement national surveillance for LTBI.

Several objectives have been identified in support of the plan's 3 goals:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * To establish an RVCT revision workgroup;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * To identify data elements to add, revise, or remove from the RVCT;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * To improve availability of national surveillance data;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * To increase epidemiologic analyses of surveillance data;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * To increase use of surveillance data for program improvement;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * To support new clinic-based online LTBI reporting system "Surveillance for TB Elimination Management System" (STEMS);
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * To assess existing external LTBI surveillance data sources (e.g., state-based systems); and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * To initiate development of National LTBI Surveillance System infrastructure.

_Reported by Adam Langer, DVM, MPH, DACVPM, DTBE_

Division of Global Migration and Quarantine

 **Tuberculosis Indicator Data**

Through the CDC's regulatory authority, panel physicians around the world
screen U.S.-bound immigrants and refugees for inadmissible (Class A) health
conditions such as active TB disease. Panel physicians are required to
maintain TB Indicator data which includes data specific to any TB disease
diagnosis, including laboratory results and treatment outcomes.

TB Indicator data allow CDC to monitor the effectiveness and impact of the
U.S. overseas TB screening program. CDC's _Tuberculosis Technical
Instructions_ require that data be submitted by all panel sites annually. As
with all data, there are many inherent limitations, including failure by panel
sites to report data, incomplete submissions, and inconsistent quality in
reporting.

_2014 TB Indicator Data - Summary of Key Results:_

Reported from 146 (96%) countries with a U.S. panel physician program and 304
(87%) U.S. panel sites (% of total U.S. screening countries or sites,
respectively):

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Total of 631,100 applicants screened; 3.9% with chest radiographs suggestive of TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Total of 1,450 applicants diagnosed with Class A TB disease (230 per 100,000 screened)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Of all 1,135 culture-positive TB cases, 802 (71%) were smear-negative
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Of all TB cases, 276 were resistant to at least one drug (19%), 44 had MDR-TB (3%), and one case had XDR-TB (0.07%)

CDC's _Tuberculosis Technical Instructions_ require that immigrants and
refugees with active TB disease be completely treated and culture-negative
prior to U.S. entry.

CDC is working diligently with panel sites in pursuit of quality reporting of
TB Indicator data to assist panel physicians in improving their screening,
thereby decreasing the number of immigrants and refugees entering the U.S.
with active TB disease.

_Submitted by Tracy Dowdell, MBA, Division of Global Migration and Quarantine_

New CDC Publications

Baker BJ, Winston CA, Liu Y, France AM, Cain KP. Abrupt decline in
tuberculosis among foreign-born persons in the United States.External PLoS
One. 2016 Feb 10;11(2):e0147353. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0147353.
eCollection 2016. PMID: 26863004

Burmen B, Modi S, Cavanaugh JS, Muttai H, McCarthy KD, Alexander H, Cain K.
Tuberculosis screening outcomes for newly diagnosed persons living with HIV,
Nyanza Province, Kenya, 2009.External Int J Tuberc Lung Dis. 2016
Jan;20(1):79-84. doi: 10.5588/ijtld.15.0053. PMID: 26688532

CDC (Buss BF, Keyser-Metobo A, Rother J, Holtz, L, Gall K, Jereb J, Murphy CN,
Iwen PC, Robbe-Austerman S, Holcomb, MA, Infield P) Possible airborne person-
to-person transmission of _mycobacterium bovis_ -- Nebraska 2014-2015\. MMWR
2016 March 4; 65(8):197-201.

CDC (Ratto J, Ivy III W, Purfield A, Bangura J, Omoko A, Boateng I, Duffy N,
Sims G, Beamer B, Pi-Sunyer T, Kamara S, Conteh S, Redd J) Notes from the
field: Ebola virus disease response activities during a mass displacement
event after flooding -- Freetown, Sierra Leone, September-November, 2015.
_MMWR_ 2016 Feb 26;65(7):188-9.

CDC (Young KH, Ehman M, Reves R, Peterson Maddox BL, Khan A, Chorba TL, Jereb
J) Tuberculosis contact investigations--United States, 2003-2012Cdc-pdf. MMWR
2016 Jan 1;64:1369-74.

Chorba T, Breedlove B. Depictions of heroism in battle and anguish from
tuberculosis. Emerg Infect Dis. 2016 Mar;22(3). doi: 10.3201/eid2203.AC2203.

Dave PV, Shah AN, Nimavat PB, Modi BB, Pujara KR, Patel P, Mehariya K, Rade
KV, Shekar S, Sachdeva KS, Oeltmann JE, Kumar AM. Direct observation of
treatment provided by a family member as compared to non-Family member among
children with new tuberculosis: A pragmatic, non-Inferiority, cluster-
randomized trial in Gujarat, India.External PLoS One. 2016 Feb
5;11(2):e0148488. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0148488. eCollection 2016. PMID:
26849442

Furin J, Alirol E, Allen E, Fielding K, Merle C, Abubakar I, Andersen J,
Davies G, Dheda K, Diacon A, Dooley KE, Dravnice G, Eisenach K, Everitt D,
Ferstenberg D, Goolam-Mahomed A, Grobusch MP, Gupta R, Harausz E, Harrington
M, Horsburgh CR, Lienhardt C, McNeeley D, Mitnick CD, Nachman S, Nahid P, Nunn
AJ, Phillips P, Rodriguez C, Shah S, Wells C, Thomas-Nyang'wa B, du Cros P.
**Drug-resistant tuberculosis clinical trials: Proposed core research
definitions in adults. Int j tuberc Lung Dis.** 2016 Mar 20(3): 290-5. doi
**:**http://dx.doi.org/10.5588/ijtld.15.0490External.

Heidebrecht CL, Podewils LJ, Pym AS, Cohen T, Mthiyane T, Wilson D. Assessing
the utility of Xpert(®) MTB/RIF as a screening tool for patients admitted to
medical wards in South Africa.External Sci Rep. 2016 Jan 20;6:19391. doi:
10.1038/srep19391. PMID: 26786396.

Jewett A, Bell T, Cohen NJ, Buckley K, Leino EV, Even S, Beavers S, Brown C,
Marano N. US college and university student health screening requirements for
tuberculosis and vaccine-preventable diseases, 2012.External J Am Coll Health.
2016 Jan 5:0. [Epub ahead of print]. PMID: 26730492.

Juarez-Reyes M, Gallivan M, Chyorny A, O'Keeffe L, Shah NS. Completion rate
and side-effect profile of three-month isoniazid and rifapentine treatment for
latent tuberculosis infection in an urban county jail.External Open Forum
Infect Dis. 2016 Jan 6;3(1):ofv220. doi: 10.1093/ofid/ofv220. eCollection 2016
Jan. PMID: 26885547.

Kim L, Moonan PK, Heilig CM, Woodruff RS, Kammerer JS, Haddad MB. Factors
associated with recurrent tuberculosis more than 12 months after treatment
completion.External Int J Tuberc Lung Dis. 2016 Jan;20(1):49-56. doi:
10.5588/ijtld.15.0442. PMID: 26688528.

Luetkemeyer AF, Firnhaber C, Kendall MA, Wu X, Mazurek GH, Benator DA; Arduino
R, Fernandez M, Guy E, Johnson P, Metchock B, Sattler F, Telzak E, Wang YF,
Weiner M, Swindells S, Sanne IM, Havlir DV, Grinsztejn B, Alland D; AIDS
Clinical Trials Group A5295 and Tuberculosis Trials Consortium Study 34 Teams.
Evaluation of Xpert MTB/RIF to identify pulmonary tuberculosis in tuberculosis
suspects from low and higher prevalence settings compared to acid fast smear
and culture.External Clin Infect Dis. 2016 Feb 2. pii: ciw035. [Epub ahead of
print] PMID: 26839383.

Nnadi CD, Anderson LF, Armstrong LR, Stagg HR, Pedrazzoli D, Pratt R, Heilig
CM, Abubakar I, Moonan PK. Mind the gap: TB trends in the USA and the UK,
2000-2011.External Thorax. 2016 Feb 23. pii: thoraxjnl-2015-207915. doi:
10.1136/thoraxjnl-2015-207915. [Epub ahead of print]. PMID: 26907187.

Roland KB, Benard VB, Greek A, Hawkins NA, Lin L. Changes in knowledge and
beliefs about human papillomavirus and cervical cancer screening intervals in
low-income women after an educational intervention.External J Prim Care
Community Health. 2016 Jan 13. pii: 2150131915624869. [Epub ahead of print]
PMID: 26763304 PMID: 26763304.

Sharma A, Bloss E, Heilig CM, Click ES. Tuberculosis caused by mycobacterium
africanum, United States, 2004-2013. Emerg Infect Dis.External 2016
Mar;22(3):396-403. doi: 10.3201/eid2203.151505.  PMID: 26886258.

Tupasi T, Garfin AM, Kurbatova EV, Mangan JM, Orillaza-Chi R, Naval LC, Balane
GI, Basilio R, Golubkov A, Joson ES, Lew WJ, Lofranco V, Mantala M, Pancho S,
Sarol JN Jr. Factors associated with loss to follow-up during treatment for
multidrug-resistant tuberculosis, the Philippines, 2012-2014. Emerg Infect
Dis.External 2016 Mar;22(3). doi: 10.3201/eid2203.151788. PMID: 26889786.

Velasquez GE, Cegielski JP, Murray MB, Yagui MJ, Asencios LL, Bayona JN,
Bonilla CA, Jave HO, Yale G, Suarez CZ, Sanchez E, Rojas C, Atwood SS,
Contreras CC, Cruz JS, Shin SS. Impact of HIV on mortality among patients
treated for tuberculosis in Lima, Peru: A prospective cohort study.External
BMC Infect Dis. 2016 Feb 1;16(1):45. doi: 10.1186/s12879-016-1375-8. PMID:
26831140.

Page last reviewed: March 15, 2016

Content source: Division of Tuberculosis Elimination

home Tuberculosis

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Basic TB Factsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * How TB Spreads
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Latent TB Infection and TB Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Risk Factors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Exposure to TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB & HIV Coinfection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB and Diabetes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Terms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Personal Storiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Kristi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Laura
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Kelcie
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tenzin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mildred
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Shaka
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Kelly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Kim
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Emily
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jerry
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Kate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nauman
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nicole
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Thomas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Natalie
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Esteban and Danielle
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Deo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Kenni
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Rosalie and Faith
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Rick and Francene
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Santos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mabruka
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Liliana
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Martha
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tri
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Sarah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Testing & Diagnosisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Who Should be Tested
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Testing for TB Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Testing in BCG-Vaccinated Persons
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Screening and Testing of Health Care Personnel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Testing During Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Diagnosing latent TB infection and TB disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Treatmentplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Deciding When to Treat Latent TB Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Treatment Regimens for Latent TB Infection (LTBI)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Treatment for TB Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Adverse Events
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Treatment of Persons Living with HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Treatment and Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Treatment for Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Drug-Resistant TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Researchplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Epidemiologic Studies Consortiumplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Research Projects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Publications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Trials Consortiumplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Study Descriptions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Background
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Behavioral & Social Science Research
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Care Settingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Infection Control in Health Care Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Resources for TB Screening and Testing of Health Care Personnelplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * TB in Specific Populationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * African-American Communityplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Stop TB in the African-American Community Summit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Background
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Slideset
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Asian Community
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Correctional Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Homelessness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * International Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Health Disparities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Laboratory Informationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Drug Susceptibility Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * False-Positive Investigation Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Interim Laboratory Biosafety Guidance for XDR _Mycobacterium_ tuberculosis strains
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Model Performance Evaluation Program (MPEP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Rapid Molecular Testing to Detect Drug-Resistant TB in the USplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Executive Summary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Introduction
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Background on Tests for Molecular Detection of DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * General Considerations and Principles for a Molecular DR Testing Service
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Possible Scenarios and Scope of Testing for a Molecular DR Testing Service
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Research Needs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * General Recommendations of the Expert Panel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Communication Plan for the Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Recommendations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * References
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Panel Members and CDC Participants
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Appendix 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Appendix 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Appendix 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Uses of Nucleic Acid Amplification Tests for the Diagnosis of TBplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * General Considerations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * General Recommendations of the Expert Panel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Recommendations to ACET, CDC, DTBE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Data & Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Incidence in the United States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Reported TB in the US, 2018 Surveillance Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Trends in Tuberculosis 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tuberculosis in the United States, 2018 (Slide Set)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Archived Surveillance Reports and Slide Sets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2018 State and City Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Archived State and City Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Professional Resources & Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tools for Healthcare Providersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Interactive Core Curriculum on Tuberculosis: What the Clinician Should Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Resources for TB Programsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Centers of Excellence 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Publications & Productsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Patient and Public Materials
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Fact Sheetsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * General
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data & Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Drug-Resistant TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Infection Control & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB in Specific Populations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Testing & Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Vaccines & Immunizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidelinesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Contact Investigations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Control & Elimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Drug-Resistant TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Genotyping
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Infection Control & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Laboratory
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB & HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB in Specific Populations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Testing & Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Vaccines & Immunizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Guidelines by Date
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guides & Toolkitsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Aggregate Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TB Surveillance Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Core Curriculum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Effective TB Interviewing for Contact Investigation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Ethnographic Guides
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * False-Positive Investigation Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Forging Partnerships to Eliminate TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Guide to Application of Genotyping
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LTBI: A Guide for Primary Health Care Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Mantoux Tuberculin Skin Testing Products
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Report of Verified Case of Tuberculosis (RVCT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Self-Study Modules
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Contact Investigation Interviewing Skills Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB eDOT Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Understanding the TB Cohort Review Process
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Newslettersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 4, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 3, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 2, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 1, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 6, 2018Â 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 5, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 4, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 3, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 2, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 1, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 5, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 4, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 3, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 2, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 1, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 5, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 4, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 3, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 2, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 1, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Pamphlets, Brochures, Bookletsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Questions and Answers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Patient Education Series
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tuberculosis â Get the Facts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tuberculosis â The Connection between TB and HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 12-Dose Regimen for Latent TB Infection-Patient Education Brochure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Postersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Mantoux Tuberculin Skin Test Wall Chart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * World TB Day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Think TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Stop TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Reports & Articlesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Reports (MMWRs)_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * DTBE Authored Journal Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tuberculosis Laboratory Aggregate Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Slide Setsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Epidemiology of Tuberculosis Among Non-U.S.ââBorn Persons in the United States, 1993â2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Self-Study Modules on Tuberculosis, 1-5 Slide Sets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Tuberculosis (TB) in Correctional Settingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facilitator Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Introduction to TB Genotyping
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Core Curriculum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Epidemiology of Tuberculosis in Correctional Facilities, United States, 1993-2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Prevention and Control of Tuberculosis in Correctional and Detention Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Guidelines for Preventing the Transmission of M. TB in Health care Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Investigation of Contacts of Persons with Infectious TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Epidemiology of Pediatric Tuberculosis in the United States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Targeted Tuberculosis Testing and Treatment of Latent Tuberculosis Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Electronic Tools & Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Web-Based Courses & Webinarsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB 101 for Health Care Workersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB 101
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Interactive Core Curriculum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Program Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Content Syndication
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Infographicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Social Media Graphics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Customizable Take on TB Infographic with Instructions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Events
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * World TB Dayplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * U.S. TB Championsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2020 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2019 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2018 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2017 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2016 Supporting TB Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2016 Building Partnerships
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2016 Expanding Testing and Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2016 Focusing on Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2016 Maximizing Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Activities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Linksplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * State TB Control Offices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * About Usplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mission Statement and Activitiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * DTBE Strategic Plan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * National TB Program Objectives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Organization Chart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Advisory Groupsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Federal TB Task Force

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about TB Notes Newsletter page, enter your email
address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit





**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[GATS]: Global Adult Tobacco Survey
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[17 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[19 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 5:00 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 1:27 PM

