Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000841.htm    
                                Description: Pubic lice are tiny wingless insects that infect the pubic hair area and lay eggs there. These lice can also be found in armpit hair, eyebrows, moustache, beard, around the anus, and eyelashes (in children).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pubic lice

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000841.htm

# Pubic lice

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pubic lice are tiny wingless insects that infect the pubic hair area and lay
eggs there. These lice can also be found in armpit hair, eyebrows, moustache,
beard, around the anus, and eyelashes (in children).

![Crab louse,
female](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/2611.jpg)![Pubic louse-
male](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/2612.jpg)

## Causes

Pubic lice are most commonly spread during sexual activity.

In very rare cases, pubic lice can spread through contact with objects such as
toilet seats, sheets, blankets, or bathing suits (that you may try on at a
store).

Animals cannot spread lice to humans.

Other types of lice include:

    * Body lice
    * Head lice

You are at greater risk for pubic lice if you:

    * Have many sexual partners (high incidence in men who have sex with men)
    * Have sexual contact with an infected person
    * Share bedding or clothing with an infected person 

## Symptoms

Pubic lice cause itching in the area covered by pubic hair. Itching often gets
worse at night. The itching may start soon after getting infected with lice,
or it may not start for up to 2 to 4 weeks after contact.

Other symptoms can include:

    * Local skin reactions to the bites that causes skin to turn red or bluish-gray
    * Sores in the genital area due to bites and scratching 
![Crab lice](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/2613.jpg)

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will do an exam to look for:

    * The lice
    * Small gray-white oval eggs (nits) attached to the hair shafts in the outer genital area
    * Scratch marks or signs of a skin infection

Because pubic lice may cause an eye infection in young children, eyelashes
should be looked at with a high-powered magnifying glass. Sexual transmission,
and potential sexual molestation, should always be considered if pubic lice
are found in children.

Adult lice are easy to identify with a special magnifying device called a
dermoscope.Â Pubic lice are often referred to as "the crabs" because of their
appearance.

Teenagers and adults with pubic lice may need to be tested for other sexually
transmitted infections (STIs).

## Treatment

MEDICINES

Pubic lice are often treated with medicines that contain a substance called
permethrin. To use this medicine:

    * Thoroughly work the medicine into your pubic hair and surrounding area. Leave it on for at least 5 to 10 minutes, or as directed by your provider.
    * Rinse well.
    * Comb your pubic hair with a fine-toothed comb to remove eggs (nits). Applying vinegar to pubic hair before combing may help loosen the nits. 

In case of eyelash infestation, applying soft paraffin three times daily for 1
to 2 weeks may help.

Most people need only one treatment. If a second treatment is needed, it
should be done 4 days to 1 week later.

Over-the-counter medicines to treat lice include Rid, Nix, LiceMD, among
others. Malathione lotion is another option.

Sexual partners should be treated at the same time.

OTHER CARE

While you are treating pubic lice:

    * Wash and dry all clothing and bedding in hot water.
    * Spray items that cannot be washed with a medicated spray that you can buy at the store. You can also seal items in plastic bags for 10 to 14 days to smother the lice. 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The proper treatment, including thorough cleaning, should get rid of the lice.

Scratching can make the skin raw or cause a skin infection.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your provider if:

    * You or your sexual partner has symptoms of pubic lice
    * You try over-the-counter lice treatments and they are not effective
    * Your symptoms continue after treatment

## Prevention

Avoid sexual or intimate contact with people you who have pubic lice until
they have been treated.

Bathe or shower often and keep your bedding clean.Â Avoid trying on bathing
suits while you are shopping. If you must try on swimwear, be sure to wear
your underwear. This may prevent you from getting or spreading pubic lice.

## Alternative Names

Pediculosis - pubic lice; Lice - pubic; Crabs; Pediculosis pubis; Phthirus
pubis

## Images

    * ![Crab louse, female](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2611t.jpg)Crab louse, female
    * ![Pubic louse-male](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2612t.jpg)Pubic louse-male
    * ![Crab lice](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2613t.jpg)Crab lice
    * ![Head louse and pubic louse](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2641t.jpg)Head louse and pubic louse

## References

Burkhart CN, Burkhart CG, Morrell DS. Infestations. In: Bolognia JL, Schaffer
JV, Cerroni L, eds. _Dermatology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2018:chap 84.

Katsambas A, Dessinioti C. Parasitic diseases of the skin. In: Kellerman RD,
Bope ET, eds. _Conn's Current Therapy 2018_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2018:976-982.

Marcdante KJ, Kliegman RM. Cutaneous infestations. In: Marcdante KJ, Kleigman
RM, eds. _Nelson Essentials of Pediatrics_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2019:chap 196.

## Review Date 10/14/2018

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Lice](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Lice2_thumb.jpg)Pubic Lice _Read more_

![Sexually Transmitted
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SexualTransmittedDiseases_thumb.jpg)Sexually
Transmitted Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

