Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001280.htm    
                                Description: Orchitis is swelling (inflammation) of one or both of the testicles.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Orchitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001280.htm

# Orchitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Orchitis is swelling (inflammation) of one or both of the testicles.

## Causes

Orchitis may be caused by an infection. Many types of bacteria and viruses can
cause this condition.

The most common virus that causes orchitis is mumps. It most often occurs in
boys after puberty. Orchitis most often develops 4 to 6 days after the mumps
begins.

Orchitis may also occur along with infections of the prostate or epididymis.

Orchitis may be caused by a sexually transmitted infection (STI), such as
gonorrhea or chlamydia. The rate of sexually transmitted orchitis or
epididymitis is higher in men ages 19 to 35.

Risk factors for sexually transmitted orchitis include:

    * High-risk sexual behaviors
    * Multiple sexual partners
    * Personal history of gonorrhea or another STI
    * Sexual partner with a diagnosed STI 

Risk factors for orchitis not due to an STI include:

    * Being older than age 45
    * Long-term use of a Foley catheter
    * Not being vaccinated against the mumps
    * Problems of the urinary tract that were present at birth (congenital)
    * Repeated urinary tract infections
    * Surgery of the urinary tract (genitourinary surgery)
    * BPH (benign prostatic hyperplasia) - enlarged prostate
    * Urethral stricture (scarring inside urinary tract) 

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

    * Pain in the testicle
    * Blood in the semen
    * Discharge from penis
    * Fever
    * Groin pain
    * Pain with intercourse or ejaculation
    * Pain with urination (dysuria)
    * Scrotal swelling
    * Tender, swollen groin area on affected side
    * Tender, swollen, heavy feeling in the testicle 

## Exams and Tests

A physical exam may show:

    * Enlarged or tender prostate gland
    * Tender and enlarged lymph nodes in the groin (inguinal) area on the affected side
    * Tender and enlarged testicle on the affected side
    * Redness or tenderness of scrotum 

Tests may include:

    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * Testicular ultrasound
    * Tests to screen for chlamydia and gonorrhea (urethral smear)
    * Urinalysis
    * Urine culture (clean catch) \-- may need several samples, including initial stream, midstream, and after prostate massage 

## Treatment

Treatment may include:

    * Antibiotics, if the infection is caused by bacteria. (In the case of gonorrhea or chlamydia, sexual partners must also be treated.)
    * Anti-inflammatory medicines.
    * Pain medicines.
    * Bed rest with the scrotum elevated and ice packs applied to the area.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Getting the right diagnosis and treatment for orchitis caused by bacteria can
most often allow the testicle to recover normally.

You will need further testing to rule out testicular cancer if the testicle
does not completely return to normal after treatment.

Mumps orchitis cannot be treated, and the outcome can vary. Men who have had
mumps orchitis can become sterile.

## Possible Complications

Some boys who get orchitis caused by mumps will have shrinking of the
testicles (testicular atrophy).

Orchitis may also cause infertility.

Other potential complications include:

    * Chronic epididymitis
    * Death of testicle tissue (testicular infarction)
    * Fistula on the skin of the scrotum (cutaneous scrotal fistula)
    * Scrotal abscess

Acute pain in the scrotum or testicles can be caused by twisting of the
testicular blood vessels (torsion). This is a medical emergency that requires
immediate surgery.

A swollen testicle with little or no pain may be a sign of testicular cancer.
If this is the case, you should have a testicular ultrasound.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

See your health care provider for an exam if you have testicle problems.

Get emergency medical help if you have sudden pain in the testicle.

## Prevention

Things you can do to prevent the problem include:

    * Get vaccinated against mumps.
    * Practice safer sex behaviors to decrease your risk for STIs.

## Alternative Names

Epididymo - orchitis; Testis infection

## Images

    * ![Male reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1113t.jpg)Male reproductive anatomy
    * ![Male reproductive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9658t.jpg)Male reproductive system

## References

Mason WH. Mumps. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds.
_Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 248.

McGowan CC, Krieger J. Prostatitis, epididymitis, and orchitis. In: Bennett
JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and
Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 112.

Nickel JC. Inflammatory and pain conditions of the male genitourinary tract:
prostatitis and related pain conditions, orchitis, and epididymitis. In: Wein
AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 13.

## Review Date 1/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Mumps](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Mumps_thumb.jpg)Mumps _Read more_

![Sexually Transmitted
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SexualTransmittedDiseases_thumb.jpg)Sexually
Transmitted Diseases _Read more_

![Testicular
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TesticularDisorders_thumb.jpg)Testicular
Disorders _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

