Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003750.htm    
                                Description: Urethral discharge culture is a laboratory test done on men and boys. This test is used to identify germs in the urethra that may be causing urethritis. The urethra is the tube that drains urine from the    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Urethral discharge culture

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003750.htm

# Urethral discharge culture

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Urethral discharge culture is a laboratory test done on men and boys. This
test is used to identify germs in the urethra that may be causing urethritis.
The urethra is the tube that drains urine from the bladder.

## How the Test is Performed

The health care provider uses sterile cotton or gauze to clean the opening of
the urethra at the tip of the penis. To collect the sample, a cotton swab is
then gently inserted about three-fourths inch (2 centimeters) into the urethra
and turned. To get a good sample, the test should be done at least 2 hours
after urinating.

The sample is sent to a lab. There, it is placed in a special dish (culture).
It is then watched to see if bacteria or any other germs grow.

## How to Prepare for the Test

DO NOT urinate for 1 hour before the test. Urinating washes away some of the
germs needed for accurate test results.

## How the Test will Feel

There is usually some discomfort from swabbing the urethra.

## Why the Test is Performed

The provider often orders the test when there is a discharge from the urethra.
This test can detect sexually transmitted infections (STIs), such as gonorrhea
and chlamydia.

## Normal Results

A negative culture, or no growth appearing in the culture, is normal.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results can be a sign of infection in the genital tract. These
infections can include gonorrhea or chlamydia.

## Risks

Fainting may occur when the swab is introduced into the urethra. This is due
to stimulation of the vagus nerve. Other risks include infection or bleeding.

## Alternative Names

Culture of urethral discharge; Genital exudate culture; Culture - genital
discharge or exudate; Urethritis - culture

## Images

    * ![Male bladder anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9109t.jpg)Male bladder anatomy

## References

Babu TM, Urban MA, Augenbraun MH. Urethritis. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser
MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 107.

Beavis KG, Charnot-Katsikas A. Specimen collection and handling for diagnosis
of infectious diseases. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical
Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 64.

## Review Date 6/30/2019

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Chlamydia
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Chlamydia_thumb.jpg)Chlamydia
Infections _Read more_

![Gonorrhea](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Gonorrhea2_thumb.jpg)Gonorrhea
_Read more_

![Sexually Transmitted
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SexualTransmittedDiseases_thumb.jpg)Sexually
Transmitted Diseases _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

