Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001495.htm    
                                Description: Cervicitis is swelling or inflamed tissue of the end of the uterus (cervix).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cervicitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001495.htm

# Cervicitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cervicitis is swelling or inflamed tissue of the end of the uterus (cervix).

## Causes

Cervicitis is most often caused by an infection that is caught during sexual
activity. Sexually transmitted infections (STIs) that can cause cervicitis
include:

    * Chlamydia
    * Gonorrhea
    * Herpes virus (genital herpes)
    * Human papilloma virus (genital warts)
    * Trichomoniasis

Other things that can cause cervicitis include:

    * A device inserted into the pelvic area such as a cervical cap, diaphragm, IUD, or pessary
    * Allergy to spermicides used for birth control
    * Allergy to latex in condoms
    * Exposure to a chemical 

Cervicitis is very common. It affects more than one half of all women at some
point during their adult life. Causes include:

    * High-risk sexual behavior
    * History of STIs
    * Many sexual partners
    * Sex (intercourse) at an early age
    * Sexual partners who have engaged in high-risk sexual behavior or have had an STI 

Too much growth of some bacteria that normally are present in the vagina
(bacterial vaginosis) can also lead to cervical infection.

## Symptoms

There may be no symptoms. If symptoms are present, these may include:

    * Abnormal vaginal bleeding that occurs after intercourse, or between periods
    * Unusual vaginal discharge that does not go away: discharge may be gray, white or yellow in color
    * Painful sexual intercourse
    * Pain in the vagina
    * Pressure or heaviness in the pelvis

Women who may be at risk for chlamydia should be tested for this infection,
even if they do not have symptoms.

## Exams and Tests

A pelvic exam is done to look for:

    * Discharge from the cervix
    * Redness of the cervix
    * Swelling (inflammation) of the walls of the vagina 

Tests that may be done include:

    * Inspection of the discharge under a microscope (may show candidiasis, trichomoniasis, or bacterial vaginosis)
    * Pap test
    * Tests for gonorrhea or chlamydia 

Rarely, colposcopy and biopsy of the cervix is necessary.

## Treatment

Antibiotics are used to treat chlamydia or gonorrhea. Medicines called
antivirals may be used to treat herpes infections.

Hormonal therapy (with estrogen or progesterone) may be used in women who have
reached menopause.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most of the time, simple cervicitis usually heals with treatment if the cause
is found and there is a treatment for that cause.

Most of the time, cervicitis does not cause any symptoms. It doesn't need
treatment as long as tests for bacterial and viral causes are negative.

## Possible Complications

Cervicitis may last for months to years. Cervicitis may lead to pain with
intercourse.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have symptoms of cervicitis.

## Prevention

Things you can do to reduce your risk of developing cervicitis include:

    * Avoid irritants such as douches and deodorant tampons.
    * Make sure that any foreign objects you insert into your vagina (such as tampons) are properly placed. Be sure to follow instructions on how long to leave it inside, how often to change it, or how often to clean it.
    * Make sure your partner is free of any STI. You and your partner should not have sex with any other people.
    * Use a condom every time you have sex to lower your risk of getting an STI. Condoms are available for both men and women, but are most commonly worn by the man. A condom must be used properly every time.

## Alternative Names

Cervical inflammation; Inflammation - cervix

## Images

    * ![Female reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1112t.jpg)Female reproductive anatomy
    * ![Cervicitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17037t.jpg)Cervicitis
    * ![Uterus](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19263t.jpg)Uterus

## References

Gardella C, Eckert LO, Lentz GM. Genital tract infections: vulva, vagina,
cervix, toxic shock syndrome, endometritis, and salpingitis. In: Lobo RA,
Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 23.

McCormack WM, Augenbraun MH. Vulvovaginitis and cervicitis. In: Bennett JE,
Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and
Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 110.

Swygard H, Cohen MS. Approach to the patient with a sexually transmitted
infection. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 285.

Workowski KA, Bolan GA; Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Sexually
transmitted diseases treatment guidelines, 2015. _MMWR Recomm Rep_.
2015;64(RR-03):1-137. PMID: 26042815 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26042815.

## Review Date 1/14/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cervix
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CervixDisorder_thumb.jpg)Cervix
Disorders _Read more_

![Sexually Transmitted
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SexualTransmittedDiseases_thumb.jpg)Sexually
Transmitted Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

