Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003754.htm    
                                Description: Endocervical culture is a laboratory test that helps identify infection in the female genital tract.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Endocervical culture

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003754.htm

# Endocervical culture

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Endocervical culture is a laboratory test that helps identify infection in the
female genital tract.

## How the Test is Performed

During a vaginal examination, the health care provider uses a swab to take
samples of mucus and cells from the endocervix. This is the area around the
opening of the uterus. The samples are sent to a lab. There, they are placed
in a special dish (culture). They are then watched to see if bacteria, virus,
or fungus grow. Further tests may be done to identify the specific organism
and determine the best treatment.

## How to Prepare for the Test

In the 2 days before the procedure:

    * Do NOT use creams or other medicines in the vagina. 
    * Do NOT douche. (You should never douche. Douching can cause infection of the vagina or uterus.)
    * Empty your bladder and bowel.
    * At your provider's office, follow instructions for preparing for the vaginal exam.

## How the Test will Feel

You will feel some pressure from the speculum. This is an instrument inserted
into the vagina to hold the area open so that the provider can view the cervix
and collect the samples. There may be a slight cramping when the swab touches
the cervix.

## Why the Test is Performed

The test may be done to determine the cause of vaginitis, pelvic pain, an
unusual vaginal discharge, or other signs of infection.

## Normal Results

Organisms that are usually present in the vagina are there in the expected
amounts.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results indicate the presence of an infection in the genital tract or
urinary tract in women, such as:

    * Genital herpes
    * Chronic swelling and irritation of the urethra (urethritis)
    * Sexually transmitted infections, such as gonorrhea or chlamydia
    * Pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) 

## Risks

There may be slight bleeding or spotting after the test. This is normal.

## Alternative Names

Vaginal culture; Female genital tract culture; Culture - cervix

## Images

    * ![Female reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1112t.jpg)Female reproductive anatomy
    * ![Uterus](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19263t.jpg)Uterus

## References

Gardella C, Eckert LO, Lentz GM. Genital tract infections: vulva, vagina,
cervix, toxic shock syndrome, endometritis, and salpingitis. In: Lobo RA,
Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 23.

Swygard H, Cohen MS. Approach to the patient with a sexually transmitted
infection. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 269.

## Review Date 6/30/2019

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Sexually Transmitted
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SexualTransmittedDiseases_thumb.jpg)Sexually
Transmitted Diseases _Read more_

![Vaginal
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VaginalDiseases_thumb.jpg)Vaginal
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

