Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000439.htm    
                                Description: Urethritis is inflammation (swelling and irritation) of the urethra. The urethra is the tube that carries urine from the body.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Urethritis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000439.htm

# Urethritis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Urethritis is inflammation (swelling and irritation) of the urethra. The
urethra is the tube that carries urine from the body.

## Causes

Both bacteria and viruses may cause urethritis. Some of the bacteria that
cause this condition include _E coli,_chlamydia, and gonorrhea. These bacteria
also cause urinary tract infections and some sexually transmitted diseases.
Viral causes are herpes simplex virus and cytomegalovirus.

Other causes include:

    * Injury
    * Sensitivity to the chemicals used in spermicides, contraceptive jellies, or foams 

Sometimes the cause is unknown.

Risks for urethritis include:

    * Being a female
    * Being male, ages 20 to 35
    * Having many sexual partners
    * High-risk sexual behavior (such as men having penetrating anal sex without a condom)
    * History of sexually transmitted diseases 

## Symptoms

In men:

    * Blood in the urine or semen
    * Burning pain while urinating (dysuria)
    * Discharge from penis
    * Fever (rare)
    * Frequent or urgent urination
    * Itching, tenderness, or swelling in penis
    * Enlarged lymph nodes in the groin area
    * Pain with intercourse or ejaculation 

In women:

    * Abdominal pain
    * Burning pain while urinating
    * Fever and chills
    * Frequent or urgent urination
    * Pelvic pain
    * Pain with intercourse
    * Vaginal discharge 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will examine you. In men, the exam will include the
abdomen, bladder area, penis, and scrotum. The physical exam may show:

    * Discharge from the penis
    * Tender and enlarged lymph nodes in the groin area
    * Tender and swollen penis 

A digital rectal exam will also be performed.

Women will have abdominal and pelvic exams. The provider will check for:

    * Discharge from the urethra
    * Tenderness of the lower abdomen
    * Tenderness of the urethra 

Your provider may look into your bladder using a tube with a camera on the
end. This is called cystoscopy.

The following tests may be done:

    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * C-reactive protein test
    * Pelvic ultrasound (women only)
    * Pregnancy test (women only)
    * Urinalysis and urine cultures
    * Tests for gonorrhea, chlamydia, and other sexually transmitted illnesses (STI)
    * Urethral swab

## Treatment

The goals of treatment are to:

    * Get rid of the cause of infection
    * Improve symptoms
    * Prevent the spread of infection 

If you have a bacterial infection, you will be given antibiotics.

You may take both pain relievers for general body pain and products for
localized urinary tract pain, plus antibiotics.

People with urethritis who are being treated should avoid sex, or use condoms
during sex. Your sexual partner must also be treated if the condition is
caused by an infection.

Urethritis caused by trauma or chemical irritants is treated by avoiding the
source of injury or irritation.

Urethritis that does not clear up after antibiotic treatment and lasts for at
least 6 weeks is called chronic urethritis. Different antibiotics may be used
to treat this problem.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

With the correct diagnosis and treatment, urethritis most often clears up
without further problems.

However, urethritis can lead to long-term damage to the urethra and scar
tissue called urethral stricture. It can also cause damage to other urinary
organs in both men and women. In women, the infection could lead to fertility
problems if it spreads to the pelvis.

## Possible Complications

Men with urethritis are at risk for the following:

    * Bladder infection (cystitis)
    * Epididymitis
    * Infection in the testicles (orchitis)
    * Prostate infection (prostatitis) 

After a severe infection, the urethra may become scarred and then narrowed.

Women with urethritis are at risk for the following:

    * Bladder infection (cystitis)
    * Cervicitis
    * Pelvic inflammatory disease (PID -- an infection of the uterus lining, fallopian tubes, or ovaries) 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of urethritis.

## Prevention

Things you can do to help avoid urethritis include:

    * Keep the area around the opening of the urethra clean.
    * Follow safer sex practices. Have one sexual partner only (monogamy) and use condoms.

## Alternative Names

Urethral syndrome; NGU; Non-gonococcal urethritis

## Images

    * ![Female urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1122t.jpg)Female urinary tract
    * ![Male urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1123t.jpg)Male urinary tract

## References

Augenbraun MH, McCormack WM. Urethritis. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ,
eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 109.

Swygard H, Cohen MS. Approach to the patient with a sexually transmitted
infection. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 285.

## Review Date 7/17/2018

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Sexually Transmitted
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SexualTransmittedDiseases_thumb.jpg)Sexually
Transmitted Diseases _Read more_

![Urethral
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UrethralDisorders_thumb.jpg)Urethral
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

