Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003749.htm    
                                Description: A Gram stain of urethral discharge is a test used to identify bacteria in fluid from the tube that drains urine from the bladder (urethra).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Gram stain of urethral discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003749.htm

# Gram stain of urethral discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A Gram stain of urethral discharge is a test used to identify bacteria in
fluid from the tube that drains urine from the bladder (urethra).

## How the Test is Performed

Fluid from the urethra is collected on a cotton swab. A sample from this swab
is applied in a very thin layer to a microscope slide. A series of stains
called a Gram stain is applied to the specimen.

The stained smear is then examined under the microscope for the presence of
bacteria. The color, size, and shape of the cells help identify the type of
bacteria causing the infection.

## How to Prepare for the Test

This test is often performed in the health care provider's office.

## How the Test will Feel

You may feel pressure or burning when the cotton swab touches the urethra.

## Why the Test is Performed

The test is performed when an abnormal urethral discharge is present. It may
be performed if a sexually transmitted infection is suspected.

## Normal Results

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your provider
about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may indicate gonorrhea or other infections.

## Risks

There are no risks.

## Considerations

A culture of the specimen (urethral discharge culture) should be performed in
addition to the gram stain. More advanced tests (such as PCR tests) may also
be done.

## Alternative Names

Urethral discharge Gram stain; Urethritis - Gram stain

## Images

    * ![Gram stain of urethral discharge](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9354t.jpg)Gram stain of urethral discharge

## References

Augenbraun MH, McCormack WM. Urethritis. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ,
eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 109.

Swygard H, Cohen MS. Approach to the patient with a sexually transmitted
infection. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 285.

## Review Date 10/8/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Gonorrhea](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Gonorrhea2_thumb.jpg)Gonorrhea
_Read more_

![Sexually Transmitted
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SexualTransmittedDiseases_thumb.jpg)Sexually
Transmitted Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

