Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003222.htm    
                                Description: Sores or lesions on the female genitalia or in the vagina may occur for many reasons.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Genital sores - female

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003222.htm

# Genital sores - female

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Sores or lesions on the female genitalia or in the vagina may occur for many
reasons.

## Considerations

Genital sores may be painful or itchy, or may produce no symptoms. Other
symptoms that may be present include pain when you urinate or painful sexual
intercourse. Depending on the cause, a discharge from the vagina may be
present.

## Causes

Infections spread through sexual contact can cause these sores:

    * Herpes is a common cause of painful sores.
    * Genital warts may cause painless sores.

Less common infections such as chancroid, granuloma inguinale, molluscum
contagiosum, and syphilis may also cause sores.

Changes that may lead to cancer of the vulva (vulvar dysplasia) may appear as
white, red, or brown patches on the vulva. These areas may itch. Skin cancers
such as melanoma and basal cell and squamous cell carcinomas may also be
found, but are less common.

Other common causes of genital sores include:

    * Long-term (chronic) skin disorder that involves red itchy rashes. (atopic dermatitis)
    * Skin that becomes red, sore, or inflamed after contact with perfumes, detergents, fabric softeners, feminine sprays, ointments, creams, douches (contact dermatitis)
    * Cysts or abscesses of the Bartholin or other glands
    * Trauma or scratches
    * Flu-type viruses that can cause genital sores or ulcers in some cases

## Home Care

See a health care provider before treating yourself. Self-treatment may make
it harder for the provider to find the source of the problem.

A sitz bath may help relieve itching and crusting.

If the sores are caused by a sexually transmitted infection, your sexual
partner may need to be tested and treated as well. Do not have any type of
sexual activity until your provider says the sores can no longer be spread to
others.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you:

    * Find any unexplained genital sore
    * Have a change in a genital sore
    * Have genital itching that does not go away with home care
    * Think you might have a sexually transmitted infection
    * Have pelvic pain, fever, vaginal bleeding, or other new symptoms as well genital sores

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will perform a physical examination. This most often includes a
pelvic examination. You will be asked about your symptoms and medical history.
Questions may include:

    * What does the sore look like? Where is it located?
    * When did you first notice it?
    * Do you have more than 1?
    * Does it hurt or itch? Has it grown bigger?
    * Have you ever had 1 before?
    * How often do you have sexual activity?
    * Do you have painful urination or pain during sexual intercourse?
    * Do you have abnormal vaginal drainage? 

The following tests may be done:

    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * Blood differential
    * Skin or mucosal biopsy
    * Vaginal or cervical culture
    * Microscopic vaginal secretion exam (wet mount)

Treatment may include medicines that you put on the skin or take by mouth. The
type of medicine depends on the cause.

## Alternative Names

Sores on the female genitals

## Images

    * ![Genital sores \(female\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17066t.jpg)Genital sores (female)

## References

Augenbraun MH. Genital skin and mucous membrane lesions. In: Bennett JE, Dolin
R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 108.

Frumovitz M, Bodurka DC. Neoplastic diseases of the vulva: lichen sclerosus,
intraepithelial neoplasia, paget disease, and carcinoma. In: Lobo RA,
Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 30.

Gardella C, Eckert LO, Lentz GM. Genital tract infections: vulva, vagina,
cervix, toxic shock syndrome, endometritis, and salpingitis. In: Lobo RA,
Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 23.

Link RE, Rosen T. Cutaneous diseases of the external genitalila. In: Wein AJ,
Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 16.

## Review Date 9/28/2017

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Sexually Transmitted
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SexualTransmittedDiseases_thumb.jpg)Sexually
Transmitted Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

