Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001279.htm    
                                Description: Epididymitis is swelling (inflammation) of the tube that connects the testicle with the vas deferens. The tube is called the epididymis.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Epididymitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001279.htm

# Epididymitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Epididymitis is swelling (inflammation) of the tube that connects the testicle
with the vas deferens. The tube is called the epididymis.

## Causes

Epididymitis is most common in young men ages 19 to 35. It is most often
caused by the spread of a bacterial infection. Infection often begins in the
urethra, the prostate, or the bladder. Gonorrhea and chlamydia infections are
most often the cause of the problem in young heterosexual men. In children and
older men, it is more commonly caused by _E coli_ and similar bacteria. This
is also true in men who have sex with men.

_Mycobacterium tuberculosis_ (TB) can cause epididymitis. Other bacteria (such
as Ureaplasma) may also cause the condition.

Amiodarone is a medicine which prevents abnormal heart rhythms. This medicine
can also cause epididymitis.

The following increase the risk for epididymitis:

    * Recent surgery
    * Past structural problems in the urinary tract
    * Regular use of a urethral catheter
    * Sexual intercourse with more than one partner and not using condoms
    * Enlarged prostate 

## Symptoms

Epididymitis may begin with:

    * Low fever
    * Chills
    * Feeling of heaviness in the testicle area

The testicle area will get more sensitive to pressure. It will become painful
as the condition progresses. An infection in the epididymis can easily spread
to the testicle.

Other symptoms include:

    * Blood in the semen
    * Discharge from the urethra (the opening at the end of the penis)
    * Discomfort in the lower abdomen or pelvis
    * Lump near the testicle

Less common symptoms are:

    * Pain during ejaculation
    * Pain or burning during urination
    * Painful scrotal swelling (epididymis is enlarged)
    * Tender, swollen, and painful groin area on affected side
    * Testicle pain that gets worse during a bowel movement 

Symptoms of epididymitis may be similar to those of testicular torsion, which
requires emergent treatment.

## Exams and Tests

Physical exam will show a red, tender lump on the affected side of the
scrotum. You may have tenderness in a small area of the testicle where the
epididymis is attached. A large area of swelling may develop around the lump.

The lymph nodes in the groin area may be enlarged. There may also be discharge
from the penis. A rectal exam may show an enlarged or tender prostate.

These tests may be performed:

    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * Doppler ultrasound
    * Testicular scan (nuclear medicine scan)
    * Urinalysis and culture (you may need to give several specimens, including initial stream, mid-stream, and after a prostate massage)
    * Tests for chlamydia and gonorrhea

## Treatment

Your health care provider will prescribe medicine to treat the infection.
Sexually transmitted infections need antibiotics. Your sexual partners should
also be treated. You may need pain medicines and anti-inflammatory medicines.

If you are taking amiodarone, you may need to lower your dose or change your
medicine. Talk with your provider.

To ease discomfort:

    * Rest lying down with the scrotum elevated.
    * Apply ice packs to the painful area.
    * Wear underwear with more support. 

You will need to follow-up with your provider to make sure the infection has
cleared completely.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Epididymitis most often gets better with antibiotic treatment. There are no
long-term sexual or reproductive problems in most cases. However, the
condition may return.

## Possible Complications

Complications include:

    * Abscess in the scrotum
    * Long-term (chronic) epididymitis 
    * Opening on the skin of the scrotum 
    * Death of testicular tissue due to lack of blood (testicular infarction)
    * Infertility

Sudden and severe pain in the scrotum is a medical emergency. You need to be
seen by a provider right away.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of epididymitis. Go to the emergency
room or call the local emergency number (such as 911) if you have sudden,
severe testicle pain or pain after an injury.

## Prevention

You can prevent complications if you get diagnosed and treated early.

Your provider may prescribe antibiotics before a surgery. This is because some
surgeries could raise the risk for epididymitis. Practice safe sex. Avoid
multiple sexual partners and use condoms. This may help prevent epididymitis
caused by sexually transmitted diseases.

## Images

    * ![Male reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1113t.jpg)Male reproductive anatomy
    * ![Blood in semen](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17095t.jpg)Blood in semen
    * ![Pathway of sperm](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19073t.jpg)Pathway of sperm
    * ![Male reproductive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9658t.jpg)Male reproductive system

## References

Geisler WM. Diseases caused by chlamydiae. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 318.

Nickel JC. Inflammatory and pain conditions of the male genitourinary tract:
prostatitis and related pain conditions, orchitis, and epididymitis. In: Wein
AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 13.

## Review Date 7/17/2018

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Penis
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PenisDisorders_thumb.jpg)Penis
Disorders _Read more_

![Sexually Transmitted
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SexualTransmittedDiseases_thumb.jpg)Sexually
Transmitted Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

