Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003221.htm    
                                Description: A male genital sore is any sore or lesion that appears on the penis, scrotum, or male urethra.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Genital sores - male

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003221.htm

# Genital sores - male

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A male genital sore is any sore or lesion that appears on the penis, scrotum,
or male urethra.

## Causes

A common cause of male genital sores are infections that are spread through
sexual contact, such as:

    * Genital herpes (small, painful blisters filled with clear or straw-colored fluid)
    * Genital warts (flesh-colored spots that are raised or flat, and may look like the top of a cauliflower)
    * Chancroid (a small bump in the genitals, which becomes an ulcer within a day of its appearance)
    * Syphilis (small, painless open sore or ulcer [called a chancre] on the genitals)
    * Granuloma inguinale (small, beefy-red bumps appear on the genitals or around the anus)
    * Lymphogranuloma venereum (small painless sore on the male genitals) 

Other types of male genital sores may be caused by rashes such as psoriasis,
molluscum contagiosum, allergic reactions, and non-sexually transmitted
infections.

For some of these problems, a sore may also be found at other places on the
body, such as in the mouth and throat.

## Home Care

If you notice a genital sore:

    * See a health care provider right away. Do not try to treat yourself because self-care can make it harder for the provider to find the cause of the problem.
    * Abstain from all sexual contact until you've been examined by your provider.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You have any unexplained genital sores
    * New sores appear in other parts of your body

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will perform a physical exam. The exam will include the genitals,
pelvis, skin, lymph nodes, mouth, and throat.

The provider will ask questions such as:

    * What does the sore look like and where is it located?
    * Does the sore itch or hurt?
    * When did you first notice the sore? Have you ever had similar sores in the past?
    * What are your sexual habits?
    * Do you have any other symptoms such as drainage from the penis, painful urination, or signs of infection? 

Different tests may be done depending on the possible cause. These may include
blood tests, cultures, or biopsies.

Treatment will depend on the cause. Your provider may ask you to avoid sexual
activity or use a condom for a while.

## Alternative Names

Sores - male genitals; Ulcers - male genitals

## References

Augenbraun MH. Genital skin and mucous membrane lesions. In: Bennett JE, Dolin
R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 106.

Link RE, Rosen T. Cutaneous diseases of the external genitalia. In: Wein AJ,
Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 16.

Scott GR. Sexually transmitted infections. In: Ralston SH, Penman ID, Strachan
MWJ, Hobson RP, eds. _Davidson's Principles and Practice of Medicine_. 23rd
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 13.

Workowski KA, Bolan GA; Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Sexually
transmitted diseases treatment guidelines, 2015. _MMWR Recomm Rep_.
2015;64(RR-03):1-137. PMID: 26042815 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26042815.

## Review Date 6/30/2019

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Sexually Transmitted
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SexualTransmittedDiseases_thumb.jpg)Sexually
Transmitted Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

