Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000636.htm    
                                Description: Donovanosis (granuloma inguinale) is a sexually transmitted disease that is rarely seen in the United States.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Donovanosis (granuloma inguinale)

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000636.htm

# Donovanosis (granuloma inguinale)

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Donovanosis (granuloma inguinale) is a sexually transmitted disease that is
rarely seen in the United States.

## Causes

Donovanosis (granuloma inguinale) is caused by the bacterium _Klebsiella
granulomatis_. The disease is commonly found in tropical and subtropical areas
such as southeast India, Guyana, and New Guinea. There are about 100 cases
reported per year in the United States. Most of these cases occur in people
who have traveled to or are from places where the disease is common.

The disease spreads mostly through vaginal or anal intercourse. Very rarely,
it spreads during oral sex.

Most infections occur in people ages 20 to 40.

## Symptoms

Symptoms can occur 1 to 12 weeks after coming in contact with the disease
causing bacteria.

These may include:

    * Sores in the anal area in about half of the cases.
    * Small, beefy-red bumps appear on the genitals or around the anus.
    * The skin gradually wears away, and the bumps turn into raised, beefy-red, velvety nodules called granulation tissue. They are often painless, but they bleed easily if injured.
    * The disease slowly spreads and destroys genital tissue.
    * Tissue damage may spread to the groin.
    * The genitals and the skin around them lose skin color. 

In its early stages, it may be hard to tell the difference between donovanosis
and chancroid.

In the later stages, donovanosis may look like advanced genital cancers,
lymphogranuloma venereum, and anogenital cutaneous amebiasis.

## Exams and Tests

Tests that may be done include:

    * Culture of tissue sample (hard to do and not routinely available)
    * Scrapings or biopsy of lesion 

Laboratory tests, similar to those used to detect syphilis, are available only
on a research basis for diagnosing donovanosis.

## Treatment

Antibiotics are used to treat donovanosis. These may include azithromycin,
doxycycline, ciprofloxacin, erythromycin, and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole.
To cure the condition, long-term treatment is needed. Most treatment courses
run 3 weeks or until the sores have completely healed.

A follow-up examination is important because the disease can reappear after it
seems to be cured.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Treating this disease early decreases the chances of tissue damage or
scarring. Untreated disease leads to damage of the genital tissue.

## Possible Complications

Health problems that may result from this disease include:

    * Genital damage and scarring
    * Loss of skin color in genital area
    * Permanent genital swelling due to scarring

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your health care provider if:

    * You have had sexual contact with a person who is known to have donovanosis
    * You develop symptoms of donovanosis
    * You develop an ulcer in the genital area

## Prevention

Avoiding all sexual activity is the only absolute way to prevent a sexually
transmitted disease such as donovanosis. However, safer sex behaviors may
reduce your risk.

The proper use of condoms, either the male or female type, greatly decreases
the risk of catching a sexually transmitted disease. You need to wear the
condom from the beginning to the end of each sexual activity.

## Alternative Names

Granuloma inguinale; Sexually transmitted diseaseÂ - donovanosis; STD -
donovanosis; Sexually transmitted infectionÂ - donovanosis; STI - donovanosis

## Images

    * ![Skin layers](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8912t.jpg)Skin layers

## References

Gardella C, Eckert LO, Lentz GM. Genital tract infections: vulva, vagina,
cervix, toxic shock syndrome, endometritis, and salpingitis. In: Lobo RA,
Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2017:chap 23.

Ghanem KG, Hook EW. Granuloma inguinale (Donovanosis). In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2020:chap 300.

Stoner BP, Reno HEL. _Klebsiella granulomatis_ (donovanosis, granuloma
inguinale). In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and
Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2020:chap 235.

## Review Date 8/25/2019

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Sexually Transmitted
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SexualTransmittedDiseases_thumb.jpg)Sexually
Transmitted Diseases _Read more_

![Skin Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinInfection_thumb.jpg)Skin
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

