Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001949.htm    
                                Description: Safe sex means taking steps before and during sex that can prevent you from getting an infection, or from giving an infection to your partner.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Safe sex

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001949.htm

# Safe sex

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Safe sex means taking steps before and during sex that can prevent you from
getting an infection, or from giving an infection to your partner.

## Information

A sexually transmitted infection (STI) is an infection that can be spread to
another person through sexual contact. STIs include:

    * Chlamydia
    * Genital herpes
    * Genital warts
    * Gonorrhea
    * Hepatitis
    * HIV
    * HPV
    * Syphilis 

STIs are also called sexually transmitted diseases (STDs).

These infections are spread by direct contact with a sore on the genitals or
mouth, body fluids, or sometimes the skin around the genital area.

Before having sex:

    * Get to know your partner and discuss your sexual histories.
    * Don't feel forced into having sex.
    * Don't have sexual contact with anyone but your partner.

Your sexual partner should be someone who you know does not have any STI.
Before having sex with a new partner, each of you should get screened for STIs
and share the test results with each other.

If you know you have an STI such as HIV or herpes, let any sexual partner know
this before you have sex. Allow him or her to decide what to do. If you both
agree to have sexual contact, use latex or polyurethane condoms.

Use condoms for all vaginal, anal, and oral intercourse.

    * The condom should be in place from the beginning to the end of the sexual activity. Use it every time you have sex.
    * Keep in mind that STIs can be spread by contact with skin areas around the genitals. A condom reduces but does not eliminate your risk of getting an STI. 

Other tips include:

    * Use lubricants. They may help reduce the chance that a condom will break.
    * Use only water-based lubricants. Oil-based or petroleum-type lubricants can cause latex to weaken and tear.
    * Polyurethane condoms are less likely to break than latex condoms, but they cost more.
    * Using condoms with nonoxynol-9 (a spermicide) may increase the chance of HIV transmission.
    * Stay sober. Alcohol and drugs impair your judgment. When you are not sober, you might not choose your partner as carefully. You may also forget to use condoms, or use them incorrectly. 

Get tested regularly for STIs if you have new sexual partners. Most STIs have
no symptoms, so you need to be tested often if there is any chance you have
been exposed. You will have the best outcome and will be less likely to spread
the infection if you are diagnosed early.

Consider getting the HPV vaccine to keep from getting the human
papillomavirus. This virus can put you at risk for genital warts and for
cervical cancer in women.

## Alternative Names

Chlamydia - safe sex; STD - safe sex; STI - safe sex; Sexually transmitted -
safe sex; GC - safe sex; Gonorrhea - safe sex; Herpes - safe sex; HIV - safe
sex; Condoms - safe sex

## Images

    * ![The female condom](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17063t.jpg)The female condom
    * ![The male condom](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17082t.jpg)The male condom
    * ![STDs and ecological niches](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17210t.jpg)STDs and ecological niches
    * ![Primary syphilis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17266t.jpg)Primary syphilis

## References

Del Rio C, Cohen MS. Prevention of human immunodeficiency virus infection. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 387.

Gardella C, Eckert LO, Lentz GM. Genital tract infections: vulva, vagina,
cervix, toxic shock syndrome, endometritis, and salpingitis. In: Lobo RA,
Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 23.

LeFevre ML; US Preventive Services Task Force. Behavioral counseling
interventions to prevent sexually transmitted infections: US Preventive
Services Task Force recommendation statement. _Ann Intern Med_.
2014;161(12):894-901. PMID: 25244227 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25244227.

McKinzie J. Sexually transmitted diseases. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 88.

Workowski KA, Bolan GA; Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Sexually
transmitted diseases treatment guidelines, 2015. _MMWR Recomm Rep_.
2015;64(RR-03):1-137. PMID: 26042815. www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26042815.

## Review Date 4/15/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Sexually Transmitted
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SexualTransmittedDiseases_thumb.jpg)Sexually
Transmitted Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

