Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007436.htm    
                                Description: The human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine protects against infection by certain strains of HPV.Â HPV can cause cervical cancer and genital warts.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

HPV vaccine

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007436.htm

# HPV vaccine

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine protects against infection by certain
strains of HPV.Â HPV can cause cervical cancer and genital warts.

HPV has also been linked to other kinds of cancers, including vaginal, vulvar,
penile, anal, mouth, and throat cancers.

## Information

HPV is a common virus that is spread through sexual contact. There are several
types of HPV. Many types don't cause problems. However, some types of HPV can
cause cancers of the:

    * Cervix, vagina, and vulva in women
    * Penis in men
    * Anus in women and men
    * Back of the throat in women and men

The HPV vaccine protects against the types of HPV that cause most cases of
cervical cancer. Other less common types of HPV can also cause cervical
cancer.

The vaccine does not treat cervical cancer.

WHO SHOULD GET THIS VACCINE

The HPV vaccine is recommended for boys and girls 9 through 14 years old. The
vaccine is also recommended for people up to 26 years old who haven't already
gotten the vaccine or finished the series of shots.

Certain people between the ages of 27-45 may be candidates for the vaccine.
Talk to your health care provider if you think you are a candidate in this age
group.

The vaccine can offer protection against HPV-related cancers in any age group.
Certain people who may have new sexual contacts in the future and could be
exposed to HPV should also consider the vaccine.

HPV vaccine is given as a 2-dose series to boys and girls 9 through 14 years
old:

    * First dose: now
    * Second dose: 6 to 12 months after the first dose 

The vaccine is given as a 3-dose series to people 15 through 26 years old, and
to those who have weakened immune systems:

    * First dose: now
    * Second dose: 1 to 2 months after the first dose
    * Third dose: 6 months after the first dose 

Pregnant women should not receive this vaccine. However, there have been no
problems found in women who received the vaccine during pregnancy before they
knew they were pregnant.

WHAT ELSE TO THINK ABOUT

The HPV vaccine does not protect against all types of HPV that can lead to
cervical cancer. Girls and women should still receive regular screening (Pap
test) to look for precancerous changes and early signs of cervical cancer.

The HPV vaccine does not protect against other infections that can be spread
during sexual contact.

Talk to your provider if:

    * You are not sure whether you or your child should receive the HPV vaccine
    * You or your child develops complications or severe symptoms after getting an HPV vaccine
    * You have other questions or concerns about the HPV vaccine 

## Alternative Names

Vaccine - HPV; Immunization - HPV; Gardasil; HPV2; HPV4; Vaccine to prevent
cervical cancer; Genital warts - HPV vaccine; Cervical dysplasia - HPV
vaccine; Cervical cancer - HPV vaccine; Cancer of the cervix - HPV vaccine;
Abnormal Pap smear - HPV vaccine; Vaccination - HPV vaccine

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. HPV (Human Papillomavirus)
VIS. www.cdc.gov/vaccines/hcp/vis/vis-statements/hpv.html. Updated October 30,
2019. Accessed February 7, 2020.

Kim DK, Hunter P. Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices recommended
immunization schedule for adults aged 19 years or older - United States, 2019.
_MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep._ 2019;68(5):115-118. PMID: 30730868
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30730868.

Robinson CL, Bernstein H, Romero JR, Szilagyi P. Advisory Committee on
Immunization Practices recommended immunization schedule for children and
adolescents aged 18 years or younger - United States, 2019. _MMWR Morb Mortal
Wkly Rep_. 2019;68(5):112-114. PMID: 30730870
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30730870.

## Review Date 1/1/2020

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![HPV](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HPV_thumb.jpg)HPV _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

