Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000419.htm    
                                Description: Cervical cancer is a cancer that starts in the cervix. The cervix is the lower part of the uterus (womb) that opens at the top of the vagina.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cervical cancer - screening and prevention

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000419.htm

# Cervical cancer - screening and prevention

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cervical cancer is a cancer that starts in the cervix. The cervix is the lower
part of the uterus (womb) that opens at the top of the vagina.

There is a lot you can do to decrease your chance of having cervical cancer.
Also, your health care provider can do tests to find early changes that may
lead to cancer, or to find cervical cancer in the early stages.

## Lifestyle and Safer Sex Habits

Almost all cervical cancers are caused by HPV (human papilloma virus).

    * HPV is a common virus that spreads through sexual contact.
    * Certain types of HPV are more likely to lead to cervical cancer. These are called high-risk types of HPV. 
    * Other types of HPV cause genital warts.

HPV can be passed from person to person even when there are no visible warts
or other symptoms.

## Vaccines to Prevent Cervical Cancer

A vaccine is available to protect against the HPV types that cause most
cervical cancer in women. The vaccine is:

    * Recommended for girls and women ages 9 through 26.
    * Given as 2 shots in girls ages 9 through 14, and as 3 shots in teens 15 years or older.
    * Best for girls to get by age 11 or before becoming sexually active. However, girls and younger women who are already sexually active can still be protected by the vaccine if they've never been infected. 

These safer sex practices can also help reduce your risk of getting HPV and
cervical cancer:

    * Always use condoms. But be aware that condoms cannot fully protect you. This is because the virus or warts can also be on the nearby skin.
    * Have only one sexual partner, whom you know is infection-free.
    * Limit the number of sexual partners you have over time.
    * DO NOT get involved with partners who take part in high-risk sexual activities.
    * DO NOT smoke. Cigarette smoking increases the risk of getting cervical cancer. 

## Pap Smears

Cervical cancer often develops slowly. It starts as precancerous changes
called dysplasia. Dysplasia can be detected by a medical test called a Pap
smear.

Dysplasia is fully treatable. That is why it is important for women to get
regular Pap smears, so that precancerous cells can be removed before they can
become cancer.

Pap smear screening should start at age 21. After the first test:

    * Women ages 21 through 29 should have a Pap smear every 3 years. HPV testing is not recommended for this age group.
    * Women ages 30 through 65 should be screened with either a Pap smear every 3 years or the HPV test every 5 years.
    * If you or your sexual partner has other new partners, you should have a Pap smear every 3 years.
    * Women ages 65 through 70 can stop having Pap smears as long as they have had 3 normal tests within the past 10 years.
    * Women who have been treated for precancer (cervical dysplasia) should continue to have Pap smears for 20 years after treatment or until age 65, whichever is longer. 

Talk with your provider about how often you should have a Pap smear or HPV
test.

## Alternative Names

Cancer cervix - screening; HPV - cervical cancer screening; Dysplasia -
cervical cancer screening; Cervical cancer - HPV vaccine

## Images

    * ![Pap smear](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17116t.jpg)Pap smear

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Human papillomavirus
(HPV). HPV vaccine schedule and dosing. www.cdc.gov/hpv/hcp/schedules-
recommendations.html. Updated March 10, 2017. Accessed August 5, 2019.

Salcedo MP, Baker ES, Schmeler KM. Intraepithelial neoplasia of the lower
genital tract (cervix, vagina, vulva): etiology, screening, diagnosis,
management. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds.
_Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 28.

The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, Committee on
Adolescent Health Care, Immunization Expert Work Group. Committee Opinion
Number 704, June 2017. www.acog.org/Clinical-Guidance-and-
Publications/Committee-Opinions/Committee-on-Adolescent-Health-Care/Human-
Papillomavirus-Vaccination. Accessed August 5, 2019.

US Preventive Services Task Force, Curry SJ, Krist AH, Owens DK, et al.
Screening for cervical cancer: US Preventive Services Task Force
recommendation statement. _JAMA_. 2018;320(7):674-686. PMID: 30140884
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30140884.

## Review Date 6/30/2019

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Cervical Cancer
    * Cervical Cancer Screening
    * HPV
    * Women's Health Checkup

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

