

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Tuberculosis (TB)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syndicate

# TB NOTES

Minus

Related Pages

![](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_16/images/tbnotes-header.jpg)

**TB Notes 3** **2017**

### Notes from the Director

Dear Colleague:

This past spring, Division of Tuberculosis Elimination (DTBE) staff have been
involved in a variety of events. DTBE hosted a TB Expert Network Conference in
late April with the CDC-funded TB Regional Training and Medical Consultation
Centers (RTMCCs) and the National Jewish Medical Research Center. This
conference served as a forum for TB experts to discuss challenging or
complicated cases. The conference focused on clinical conundrums in the HIV-TB
co-infected patient.

The Tuberculosis Trials Consortium (TBTC) held their 39th Semi-Annual Meeting
in May in Atlanta. The meeting highlighted research on the diagnosis, clinical
management, and treatment of latent TB infection (LTBI) and TB disease, as
well as an exciting collaboration with the Tuberculosis Epidemiologic Studies
Consortium (TBESC) to study a 6-week LTBI treatment regimen. The 8th
_annualTuberculosis Epidemiologic Studies Consortium (TBESC)_ meeting was held
May 18-19 in Atlanta. The meeting highlighted current and planned TBESC
studies that encompass elements of LTBI testing, treatment, program
evaluation, and opportunities to increase uptake of testing and treatment,
such as working with community providers. In addition, DTBE staff traveled to
California to meet with the California Tuberculosis Elimination Advisory
Committee to assist in the development of a clear, focused TB prevention
communication strategy.

Congratulations to the Surveillance for Tuberculosis Elimination Management
System (STEMS) Development Team, winners of the June 2017 National Center for
HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention (NCHHSTP) Director's
Recognition Award! DTBE developed STEMS to streamline LTBI patient management.
The real-time data can be used to graphically demonstrate a local program's
progress in identifying persons in their jurisdiction who need to be screened
for LTBI, evaluating them completely, beginning treatment for those with LTBI,
and documenting completion of treatment. STEMS was officially released on
January 13, 2017.

As we enter the last half of the year, I continue to be inspired by your
dedication to the very important work you are doing every day in our efforts
to eliminate TB. I hope all of you have a safe, enjoyable, and productive
summer.

Philip LoBue, MD, FACP, FCCP  
Director,  
Division of Tuberculosis Elimination  
National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention

Open All Close All

Communications, Education, and Behavioral Studies Branch Updates

 **Communications, Education, and Behavioral Studies Branch Updates**

**Social Media**

DTBE's Twitter account, @CDC_TB, recently surpassed the 3,000 follower mark.
Since 2015, DTBE has used Twitter to share research, promote new tools and
resources, and raise awareness of TB.  DTBE's Facebook account, @CDCTB,
launched in September 2016, has also been steadily growing, with over 700
followers.  Social media continues to be an important communication tool to
reach new audiences and stakeholders in TB elimination.

_Submitted by Leeanna Allen, MPH, DTBE_

**Latent Tuberculosis Infection Online Resource Hub**

![Latent Tuberculosis Infection Online Resource
Hub](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_17/images/tbnotes-ltbihub.jpg)

The Latent TB Infection Online Resource Hub is a collection of downloadable
materials for informing and educating the public, health care providers,
policy makers, and other partners about the importance of expanded latent TB
infection testing and treatment. It is a one-stop-shop for information,
guidance, fact sheets, and messages on targeted testing recommendations for
latent TB infection.  There is also a gallery of social media graphics, web
buttons, infographics, and slide sets for use in education and outreach to
clinicians and communities.

_Submitted by John Parmer, PhD, DTBE_

![Implementing an Electronic Directly Observed Therapy \(eDOT\) Program: A
Toolkit for Tuberculosis \(TB\) Programs.
](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_17/images/tbnotes-tbedot-toolkit.jpg)

**Implementing an Electronic Directly Observed Therapy (eDOT) Program: A
Toolkit for Tuberculosis (TB) Programs.**

DTBE is pleased to announce the release of Implementing an Electronic Directly
Observed Therapy (eDOT) Program: A Toolkit for Tuberculosis (TB) Programs.

The purpose of the toolkit is to assist TB programs in developing and
implementing an eDOT program. The toolkit provides a general overview of eDOT,
steps for implementing a TB eDOT program, and sample forms that can be
tailored to fit individual TB program needs.

If you have any questions or would like more information, please contact Peri
Hopkins at phopkins@cdc.gov and Sarah Segerlind at ssegerlind@cdc.gov.

_Submitted by Peri Hopkins, MPH, DTBE_

**Retirement of Wanda Walton, PhD, MEd -- Branch Chief for the Communications,
Education, and Behavioral Studies Branch (CEBSB) in the Division of
Tuberculosis Elimination (DTBE)**

![Retirement of Wanda
Walton](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_17/images/waltoniswonder.jpg)

Wanda Walton, PhD, MEd-- Branch Chief of CEBSB in DTBE, will be retiring on
July 31, 2017. In 1989, Dr. Walton joined the U.S. Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention's (CDC) Division of Tuberculosis Control as the first TB/HIV
Health Education Specialist. Charged with the task of developing training
materials for healthcare providers, she soon recognized the need to develop
accurate and up-to-date materials for patients, their families, and
communities, as well.  Upon stepping into the role of Chief of the
Communications, Education, and Behavioral Studies Branch (CEBSB) within CDC's
Division of Tuberculosis Elimination (DTBE) in 1999, she assembled a team of
Health Education Specialists, Health Communications Specialists, and
Behavioral Scientists. This team has worked to develop a comprehensive TB-
specific website that allows providers and patients to easily access TB
information 24 hours a day in both English and Spanish. They also conduct
behavioral studies to inform improved program practice; develop culturally and
linguistically appropriate patient education materials; create and sustain the
TB Education and Training Network; and develop continuing education training
materials, online training courses, and communication materials for a wide
variety of health care providers.

In addition to her work focusing on the elimination of TB in the United
States, Dr. Walton has provided training and technical consultation to assist
countries around the world to strengthen their TB care and prevention
capacities. Some examples include: China, where she worked alongside TB
program staff to adapt the Self-Study Modules on Tuberculosis to their
program; the Philippines, Thailand, India, and Ethiopia where she facilitated
"Training of Trainers" courses; Vietnam, Nepal, Philippines, and Bangladesh
where she reviewed staff training needs and programs; and Peru, Estonia, and
Latvia, where she contributed to MDR-TB training and education.

It is simply not possible to quantify Dr. Walton's contributions to ending TB.
Her visionary approach and decisions are often mirrored by other nations. For
more than 25 years, her talent, enthusiasm, and commitment to creating and
sharing knowledge and resources, and to building capacity from within has been
preparing and inspiring countless educators around the world to do the same.
As a result, her efforts have strengthened TB prevention and control from
frontlines to boardrooms, all over the world. Dr. Walton's service and
dedication to improve global TB literacy have been greatly appreciated. In
retirement, she plans to travel, perfect her pound cake and cornbread recipes,
and spend more time with family and friends after moving to Birmingham, AL.

_Submitted by Sloane Bowman, MPH, DTBE_

![Retirement of Wanda
Walton](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_17/images/retirementofWanda-2.jpg)

Laboratory Branch Updates

 **Tuberculosis Laboratory Aggregate Report**

DTBE Laboratory Capacity Team (LCT) recently released the Fourth Edition of
the Tuberculosis Laboratory Aggregate Report Cdc-pdf[PDF - 4 MB]. Data
detailed in the report are self-reported by public health laboratories
supported, in part, by the CDC TB Elimination Cooperative Agreement. The
report includes a comparison of public health laboratory tuberculosis
aggregate workload data for calendar years 2012 to 2015, and six-year trends
(2010-2015) for turnaround time (TAT). Peer data is provided for comparison
and serves as a guide to define a laboratory's TAT goals using national
averages and trends.

**Diagnostic Mycobacteriology Workshop**

During the week of March 28, not only did Atlanta's I-85 bridge collapse, but
the DTBE Laboratory Branch also hosted their annual Diagnostic
Mycobacteriology Workshop at the CDC Roybal Campus. Twenty laboratorians from
19 U.S. states and Mexico participated in this four-day course that included
topics on laboratory risk assessment, proper use of a biosafety cabinet,
specimen processing, approaches for investigating potential false-positive and
false-negative results, mycobacteriology test methods including drug
susceptibility testing, laboratory performance metrics, test validation, whole
genome sequencing, and TB epidemiology. Participants performed real-time
Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) during a hands-on laboratory session, and
contributed to individual and group case study exercises. Participants also
enjoyed a presentation titled "Beyond the Laboratory Walls: Enhancing Your
Integrated System," presented by Jessica Gentry, Tuberculosis Laboratory
Supervisor at the Indiana State Department of Health. Jessica spoke about the
importance of building relationships with partners within a state laboratory
network, TB program, or with external laboratories. She provided real life
examples of how collaboration could benefit various parties and presented
activities laboratorians could participate in to engage these partners. The
next Diagnostic Mycobacteriology Workshop will be held in April 2018 with
applications due in late 2017.

_Submitted by Stephanie Johnson, MS, DTBE and Monica Youngblood, MPH_

Clinical Research Branch Updates

Tuberculosis Trials Consortium (TBTC) Study 31External Rifapentine-containing
treatment shortening regimens for pulmonary tuberculosis: A randomized, open-
label, controlled phase 3 clinical trial, continues to enroll. As of June 8,
2017, the study had enrolled 932 participants.  The AIDS Clinical Trials Group
(ACTG) network is collaborating with TBTC, contributing substantially to
enrollment.

TBTC's 40th semiannual meeting will be October 16-18, 2017, in Atlanta.  Those
interested to attend should contact Ms. Barbara DeCausey (404-639-5330;
tbtcresearchadmin@cdc.gov).

_Submitted by Barbara DeCausey, MPH, MBA, DTBE_

Surveillance, Epidemiology, and Outbreak Investigations Branch Updates

 **Retirement of Glenda Newell -- Statistical Assistant/ASC Coordinator on the
Surveillance Team in SEOIB in the Division of Tuberculosis Elimination
(DTBE).**

![Glenda-Newell's-retirement
picture](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_17/images/Glenda-Newells-
retirement.jpg)



Mrs. Glenda Newell, Statistical Assistant on the Surveillance Team in SEOIB,
retired on July 1 after over 43 years of federal service. Glenda began her
federal career in 1973 as a Secretary in the appraisal and mortgage divisions
of the Department of Housing and Urban Development. In 1983, she came to CDC
as a Clerk Typist in the Division of Tuberculosis, Surveillance Section.
Glenda has worked on TB surveillance, moving up into a Statistical Assistant
position and playing crucial roles in supporting the annual case count
process, the Analytic Steering Committee, and keeping open lines of
communication with our partners in state and local TB control programs. She
has served as the institutional memory and right hand to the Surveillance Team
Lead for longer than anyone can remember. Following her retirement, Glenda is
looking forward to spending more time with her husband, traveling to warm and
sunny locales, and not having to get up at 4 a.m. to get to the office every
day.

_Submitted by Tom Navin, MD, DTBE_

Data Management, Statistics, and Evaluation Branch Updates

 **Economic evaluation of investigating and following persons exposed to a
person with extensively -drug resistant tuberculosis in the United States**

Contact investigations are an essential component of TB prevention and control
in the United States; however, information about their cost is limited. In
April 2015, a person with extensively drug-resistant tuberculosis (XDR TB)
arrived in the United States from a high-incidence country, stimulating an
evaluation of 81 individuals (contacts), and periodic examinations of those
with latent TB infection (LTBI). We conducted an economic evaluation to
estimate the cost of the large-scale contact investigation for the sixteen
sites involved, including fifteen states and one county. The reported data
represented 55% of the costs, with 45% of data estimated.

Preliminary cost calculations in 2016 US dollars were determined according to
a three-step micro-costing framework: identification of components,
measurement of units consumed, and monetary valuation of each unit adjusted
for cost-of-living. Representatives from eight sites participated in data
collection through semi-structured telephone interviews. We estimated missing
data for the other sites using reported data from other sites or publicly
available sources.  We added contacts' productivity losses and out-of-pocket
costs for a societal perspective, and an estimate of the cost of treating the
index case from a published source.

Twenty-five contacts tested positive for LTBI. Seven contacts started and five
finished treatment for LTBI susceptible to first line drugs. Contacts were
tested using TB skin tests (TSTs) and Interferon-gamma release assays (IGRAs)
in equal proportion, with no significant difference in the proportions of
positive tests. From a healthcare sector perspective, this multistate contact
investigation cost $84,400, with personnel costs representing 77%, and the
cost of initial testing representing 19%. Per-site estimates ranged from $100
to $28,000, with per contact costs from $50 to $2,300. From a societal
perspective, the total costs were $116,000, ranging from $100 to $36,000 for
individual sites, with per-contact costs from $200 to $3,500. Adding the cost
of index case air transport and treatment, total cumulative costs were
$614,000 and $836,000 from the healthcare sector and societal perspectives
respectively. Results were robust to assumptions using all IGRA tests (1%
difference), and exclusion of out-of-pocket costs (6% difference). The
preliminary results from this study could facilitate planning for future
contact investigations, and may stimulate the development of a database that
compiles costs of contact investigations.

_Submitted by Samuel Shillcutt, PhD, Prevention Effectiveness Fellow; and
Suzanne Marks, MPH, MA_

New CDC Publications

May 2017

Cavanaugh JS, Jou R, Wu MH, Dalton T, Kurbatova E, Ershova J, Cegielski JP;
Global PETTS Investigators. Susceptibilities of MDR Mycobacterium tuberculosis
isolates to unconventional drugs compared with their reported
pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic parameters. J Antimicrob Chemother 2017. Epub
ahead of print.

Hannah HA, Miramontes R, Gandhi NR. Sociodemographic and clinical risk factors
associated with tuberculosis mortality in the United States, 2009-2013\.
Public Health Rep 2017:33354917698117. Epub ahead of print.

LoBue PA, Mermin JH. Latent tuberculosis infection: the final frontier of
tuberculosis elimination in the USAExternal.  Lancet Infect Dis. 2017 May 8.
Doi: 10.1016/ S1473-3099(17)30248-7. [Epub ahead of print].

Marks SM, Mase SR, Bamrah Morris S. Systematic review, meta-analysis, and cost
effectiveness of treatment of latent tuberculosis infection to reduce
progression to multidrug-resistant tuberculosis. Clin Infect Dis 2017. Epub
ahead of print.

Scott C, Mangan J, Tillova Z, Jensen PA, Ahmedov S, Ismoilova J, Trusov A.
Evaluation of the Tuberculosis Infection Control Training Center, Tajikistan,
2014-2015. Int J Tuberc Lung Dis. 2017 May 1;21(5):579-585. doi:
10.5588/ijtld.16.0518. PMID: 28399974.

Wortham JM, Goggin M, Mora C, Vandehey L, Manangan L, Powell KM. Acute kidney
injury during treatment for latent tuberculous infection with rifampin. Int J
Tuberc Lung Dis. 2017 May 1;21(5):596-597. doi: 10.5588/ijtld.17.0003. PMID:
28399977.

**June 2017**

Garzan A, Willby MJ, Ngo HX, Gajadeera CS, Green KD, Holbrook SYL, Hou C,
Posey JE, Tsodikov OV, Garneau-Tsodikova S. Combating enhanced intracellular
survival (Eis)-mediated kanamycin resistance of Mycobacterium tuberculosis by
novel pyrrolo[1,5-a]pyrazine-based Eis inhibitors. ACS Infect Dis
2017;3:302-9.

Sharma A, Hill A, Kurbatova E, van der Walt M, Kvasnovsky C, Tupasi TE, Caoili
JC, Gler MT, Volchenkov GV, Kazennyy BY, Demikhova OV, Bayona J, Contreras C,
Yagui M, Leimane V, Cho SN, Kim HJ, Kliiman K, Akksilp S, Jou R, Ershova J,
Dalton T, Cegielski P; Global Preserving Effective TB Treatment Study
Investigators. Estimating the future burden of multidrug-resistant and
extensively drug-resistant tuberculosis in India, the Philippines, Russia, and
South Africa: a mathematical modelling study. Lancet Infect Dis
2017;pii:S1473-3099(17)30247-5\. Epub ahead of print.

Shrestha S, Hil AN, Marks SM, Dowdy DW. Comparing drivers and dynamics of
tuberculosis (TB) in California, Florida, New York and Texas. Am J Respir Crit
Care Med 2017. Epub ahead of print.

Tsang CA, Langer AJ, Navin TR, Armstrong LR. Tuberculosis among foreign-born
persons diagnosed ≥10 years after arrival in the United States, 2010-2015\. Am
J Transplant 2017;17:1414-7.

**July 2017**

Barrett DH, Ortmann LW, Brown N, DeCausey BR, Saenz C, Dawson A. Public health
research [Chapter 9]. In: Barrett DH, Ortmann LW, Dawson A, Saenz C, Reis A,
Bolan G, eds. Public Health Ethics: Cases Spanning the Globe. Cham,
Switzerland: Springer; 2016.

Jones JM, Armstrong LR. Delayed and unreported drug-susceptibility testing
results in the US National Tuberculosis Surveillance System, 1993-2014\.
Public Health Rep 2017. Epub ahead of print.

Lempp JM, Zajdowicz MJ, Hankinson AL, Toney SR, Keep LW, Mancuso JD, Mazurek
GH. Assessment of the QuantiFERON-TB Gold In-Tube test for the detection of
Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection in United States Navy recruits. PLoS One
2017;12(5):e0177752.

Sandul AL, Nwana N, Holcombe JM, Lobato MN, Marks S, Webb R, Wang SH, Stewart
B, Griffin P, Hunt G, Shah N, Marco A, Patil N, Mukasa L, Moro RN, Jereb J,
Mase S, Chorba T, Bamrah-Morris S, Ho CS. High rate of treatment completion in
program settings with 12-dose weekly isoniazid and rifapentine (3HP) for
latent Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection. Clin Infect Dis 2017. Epub ahead
of print.

Smith SE, Pratt R, Trieu L, Barry PM, Thai DT, Ahuja SD, Shah S. Epidemiology
of pediatric multidrug-resistant tuberculosis in the United States,
1993-2014\. Clin Infect Dis 2017. Epub ahead of print.

Teeter LD, Kammerer JS, Ghosh S, Nguyen DTM, Vempaty P, Tapia J, Miramontes R,
Cronin WA, Graviss EA. Evaluation of 24-locus MIRU-VNTR genotyping in
Mycobacterium tuberculosis cluster investigations in four jurisdictions in the
United States, 2006-2010\. Tuberculosis 2017;106:9-15.

Page last reviewed: July 11, 2017

Content source: Division of Tuberculosis Elimination

home Tuberculosis

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Basic TB Factsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * How TB Spreads
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Latent TB Infection and TB Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Risk Factors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Exposure to TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB & HIV Coinfection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB and Diabetes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Terms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Personal Storiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Kristi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Laura
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Kelcie
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tenzin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mildred
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Shaka
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Kelly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Kim
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Emily
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jerry
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Kate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nauman
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nicole
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Thomas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Natalie
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Esteban and Danielle
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Deo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Kenni
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Rosalie and Faith
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Rick and Francene
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Santos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mabruka
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Liliana
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Martha
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tri
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Sarah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Testing & Diagnosisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Who Should be Tested
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Testing for TB Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Testing in BCG-Vaccinated Persons
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Screening and Testing of Health Care Personnel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Testing During Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Diagnosing latent TB infection and TB disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Treatmentplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Deciding When to Treat Latent TB Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Treatment Regimens for Latent TB Infection (LTBI)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Treatment for TB Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Adverse Events
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Treatment of Persons Living with HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Treatment and Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Treatment for Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Drug-Resistant TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Researchplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Epidemiologic Studies Consortiumplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Research Projects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Publications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Trials Consortiumplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Study Descriptions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Background
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Behavioral & Social Science Research
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Care Settingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Infection Control in Health Care Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Resources for TB Screening and Testing of Health Care Personnelplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * TB in Specific Populationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * African-American Communityplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Stop TB in the African-American Community Summit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Background
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Slideset
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Asian Community
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Correctional Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Homelessness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * International Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Health Disparities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Laboratory Informationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Drug Susceptibility Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * False-Positive Investigation Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Interim Laboratory Biosafety Guidance for XDR _Mycobacterium_ tuberculosis strains
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Model Performance Evaluation Program (MPEP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Rapid Molecular Testing to Detect Drug-Resistant TB in the USplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Executive Summary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Introduction
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Background on Tests for Molecular Detection of DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * General Considerations and Principles for a Molecular DR Testing Service
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Possible Scenarios and Scope of Testing for a Molecular DR Testing Service
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Research Needs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * General Recommendations of the Expert Panel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Communication Plan for the Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Recommendations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * References
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Panel Members and CDC Participants
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Appendix 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Appendix 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Appendix 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Uses of Nucleic Acid Amplification Tests for the Diagnosis of TBplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * General Considerations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * General Recommendations of the Expert Panel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Recommendations to ACET, CDC, DTBE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Data & Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Incidence in the United States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Reported TB in the US, 2018 Surveillance Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Trends in Tuberculosis 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tuberculosis in the United States, 2018 (Slide Set)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Archived Surveillance Reports and Slide Sets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2018 State and City Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Archived State and City Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Professional Resources & Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tools for Healthcare Providersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Interactive Core Curriculum on Tuberculosis: What the Clinician Should Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Resources for TB Programsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Centers of Excellence 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Publications & Productsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Patient and Public Materials
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Fact Sheetsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * General
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data & Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Drug-Resistant TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Infection Control & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB in Specific Populations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Testing & Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Vaccines & Immunizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidelinesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Contact Investigations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Control & Elimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Drug-Resistant TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Genotyping
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Infection Control & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Laboratory
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB & HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB in Specific Populations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Testing & Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Vaccines & Immunizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Guidelines by Date
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guides & Toolkitsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Aggregate Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TB Surveillance Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Core Curriculum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Effective TB Interviewing for Contact Investigation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Ethnographic Guides
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * False-Positive Investigation Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Forging Partnerships to Eliminate TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Guide to Application of Genotyping
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LTBI: A Guide for Primary Health Care Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Mantoux Tuberculin Skin Testing Products
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Report of Verified Case of Tuberculosis (RVCT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Self-Study Modules
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Contact Investigation Interviewing Skills Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB eDOT Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Understanding the TB Cohort Review Process
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Newslettersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 4, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 3, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 2, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 1, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 6, 2018Â 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 5, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 4, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 3, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 2, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 1, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 5, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 4, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 3, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 2, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 1, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 5, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 4, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 3, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 2, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 1, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Pamphlets, Brochures, Bookletsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Questions and Answers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Patient Education Series
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tuberculosis â Get the Facts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tuberculosis â The Connection between TB and HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 12-Dose Regimen for Latent TB Infection-Patient Education Brochure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Postersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Mantoux Tuberculin Skin Test Wall Chart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * World TB Day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Think TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Stop TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Reports & Articlesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Reports (MMWRs)_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * DTBE Authored Journal Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tuberculosis Laboratory Aggregate Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Slide Setsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Epidemiology of Tuberculosis Among Non-U.S.ââBorn Persons in the United States, 1993â2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Self-Study Modules on Tuberculosis, 1-5 Slide Sets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Tuberculosis (TB) in Correctional Settingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facilitator Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Introduction to TB Genotyping
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Core Curriculum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Epidemiology of Tuberculosis in Correctional Facilities, United States, 1993-2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Prevention and Control of Tuberculosis in Correctional and Detention Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Guidelines for Preventing the Transmission of M. TB in Health care Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Investigation of Contacts of Persons with Infectious TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Epidemiology of Pediatric Tuberculosis in the United States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Targeted Tuberculosis Testing and Treatment of Latent Tuberculosis Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Electronic Tools & Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Web-Based Courses & Webinarsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB 101 for Health Care Workersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB 101
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Interactive Core Curriculum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Program Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Content Syndication
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Infographicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Social Media Graphics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Customizable Take on TB Infographic with Instructions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Events
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * World TB Dayplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * U.S. TB Championsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2020 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2019 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2018 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2017 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2016 Supporting TB Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2016 Building Partnerships
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2016 Expanding Testing and Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2016 Focusing on Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2016 Maximizing Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Activities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Linksplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * State TB Control Offices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * About Usplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mission Statement and Activitiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * DTBE Strategic Plan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * National TB Program Objectives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Organization Chart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Advisory Groupsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Federal TB Task Force

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about TB Notes Newsletter page, enter your email
address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit





**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[GATS]: Global Adult Tobacco Survey
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[17 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[19 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 5:00 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 1:27 PM

