Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000886.htm    
                                Description: Genital warts are soft growths on the skin and mucous membranes of the genitals. They may be found on the penis, vulva, urethra, vagina, cervix, and around and in the anus.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Genital warts

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000886.htm

# Genital warts

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Genital warts are soft growths on the skin and mucous membranes of the
genitals. They may be found on the penis, vulva, urethra, vagina, cervix, and
around and in the anus.

Genital warts are spread through sexual contact.

## Causes

The virus that causes genital warts is called human papillomavirus (HPV). HPV
infection is the most common sexually transmitted infection (STI). There are
more than 180 types of HPV. Many cause no problems. Some cause warts on other
parts of the body and not the genitals. Types 6 and 11 are most commonly
linked to genital warts.

Certain other types of HPV can lead to precancerous changes in the cervix, or
to cervical cancer. These are called high-risk types of HPV. They can also
lead to vaginal or vulvar cancer, anal cancer, and throat or mouth cancer.

Important facts about HPV:

    * HPV infection spreads from one person to another through sexual contact involving the anus, mouth, or vagina. The virus can be spread, even if you DO NOT see the warts.
    * You may not see warts for 6 weeks to 6 months after becoming infected. You may not notice them for years.
    * Not everyone who has come into contact with the HPV virus and genital warts will develop them. 

You are more likely to get genital warts and spread them more quickly if you:

    * Have multiple sexual partners
    * Are sexually active at an early age
    * Use tobacco or alcohol
    * Have a viral infection, such as herpes, and are stressed at the same time
    * Are pregnant
    * Have a weakened immune system due to a condition such as diabetes, pregnancy, HIV/AIDS, or from medicines 

If a child has genital warts, sexual abuse should be suspected as a possible
cause.

## Symptoms

Genital warts can be so tiny, you cannot see them.

The warts can look like:

    * Flesh-colored spots that are raised or flat
    * Growths that look like the top of a cauliflower 

In females, genital warts can be found:

    * Inside the vagina or anus
    * Outside the vagina or anus, or on nearby skin
    * On the cervix inside the body 

In males, genital warts can be found on the:

    * Penis
    * Scrotum
    * Groin area
    * Thighs
    * Inside or around the anus 

Genital warts can also occur on the:

    * Lips
    * Mouth
    * Tongue
    * Throat 

Other symptoms are rare, but can include:

    * Increased dampness in the genital area near the warts
    * Increased vaginal discharge
    * Genital itching
    * Vaginal bleeding during or after sex 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. In women, this includes
a pelvic exam.

An office procedure called colposcopy is used to spot warts that cannot be
seen with the naked eye. It uses a light and a low-power microscope to help
your provider find and then take samples (biopsy) of abnormal areas in your
cervix. Colposcopy is usually done in response to an abnormal Pap smear.

The virus that causes genital warts can cause abnormal results on a Pap smear.
If you have these types of changes, you may need more frequent Pap smears or a
colposcopy.

An HPV DNA test can tell if you have a high-risk type of HPV known to cause
cervical cancer. This test may be done:

    * If you have genital warts
    * As a screening test for women over age 30
    * In women of any age who have a slightly abnormal Pap test result 

Make sure you are screened for cervical, vaginal, vulvar, or anal cancer if
you have been diagnosed with genital warts.

## Treatment

Genital warts must be treated by a doctor. Do notÂ use over-the-counter
medicines meant for other kinds of warts.

Treatment may include:

    * Medicines applied to the genital warts or injected by your doctor
    * Prescription medicine that you apply at home several times a week 

The warts may also be removed with minor procedures, including:

    * Freezing (cryosurgery)
    * Burning (electrocauterization)
    * Laser therapy
    * Surgery

If you have genital warts, all of your sexual partners should be examined by a
provider and treated if warts are found. Even if youÂ do notÂ have symptoms,
you should be treated. This is to prevent complications and avoid spreading
the condition to others.

You will need to return to your provider after treatment to make sure all the
warts are gone.

Regular Pap smears are recommended if you are a woman who has had genital
warts, or if your partner had them. If you had warts on your cervix, you may
need to have Pap smears every 3 to 6 months after the first treatment.

Women with precancerous changes caused by HPV infection may need further
treatment.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Many sexually active young women become infected with HPV. In many cases, HPV
goes away on its own.

Most men who become infected with HPV never develop any symptoms or problems
from the infection. However, they can still pass it on to current and
sometimes future sexual partners. Men are at increased risk for cancer of the
penis and throat if they have a history of HPV infection.

Even after you have been treated for genital warts, you may still infect
others.

## Possible Complications

Some types of HPV can cause cancer of the cervix and vulva. They are the main
cause of cervical cancer.

Genital warts may become numerous and quite large. These will need further
treatment.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * A current or past sexual partner has genital warts.
    * You have visible warts on your external genitals, itching, discharge, or abnormal vaginal bleeding. Keep in mind that genital warts may not appear for months to years after having sexual contact with an infected person.
    * You think a young child might have genital warts. 

Women should begin having Pap smears at age 21.

## Prevention

HPV can be passed from person to person even when there are no visible warts
or other symptoms. Practicing safer sex can help reduce your risk of getting
HPV and cervical cancer:

    * Always use male and female condoms. But be aware that condoms cannot fully protect you. This is because the virus or warts can also be on the nearby skin.
    * Have only one sexual partner, who you know is infection-free.
    * Limit the number of sexual partners you have over time.
    * Avoid partners who take part in high-risk sexual activities.

An HPV vaccine is available:

    * It protects against the HPV types that cause most HPV cancers in women and men. The vaccines DO NOT treat genital warts, they prevent the infection.
    * The vaccine can be given to boys and girls 9 to 12 years old. If the vaccine is given at this age, it is a series of 2 shots.
    * If the vaccine is given at 15 years or older, it is a series of 3 shots.

Ask your provider whether the HPV vaccine is right for you or child.

## Alternative Names

Condylomata acuminata; Penile warts; Human papillomavirus (HPV); Venereal
warts; Condyloma; HPV DNA test; Sexually transmitted disease (STD) - warts;
Sexually transmitted infection (STI) - warts; LSIL-HPV; Low-grade dysplasia-
HPV; HSIL-HPV; High-grade dysplasia HPV; HPV; Cervical cancer - genital warts

## Images

    * ![Female reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9433t.jpg)Female reproductive anatomy

## References

Bonnez W. Papillomaviruses. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell,
Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated
Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 146.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Human papillomavirus
(HPV). www.cdc.gov/std/hpv/default.htm. Updated October 6, 2017. Accessed
November 20, 2018.

Kirnbauer R, Lenz P. Human papillomaviruses. In: Bolognia JL, Schaffer JV,
Cerroni L, eds. _Dermatology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap
79.

## Review Date 9/25/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Genital Warts](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GenitalWarts_thumb.jpg)Genital
Warts _Read more_

![HPV](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HPV_thumb.jpg)HPV _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

