Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007534.htm    
                                Description: The HPV DNA test is used to check for high-risk HPV infection in women.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

HPV DNA test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007534.htm

# HPV DNA test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The HPV DNA test is used to check for high-risk HPV infection in women.

HPV infection around the genitals is common. It can be spread during sex.

    * Some types of HPV can cause cervical cancer and other cancers. These are called high-risk types.
    * Low-risk types of HPV may cause genital warts in the vagina, cervix, and on the skin. The virus that causes warts can be spread when you have sex. The HPV-DNA test is generally not recommended for detecting low-risk HPV infections. This is because most low-risk lesions can be identified visually. 

## How the Test Is Performed

The HPV DNA test may be done during a Pap smear. If they are done together, it
is called "co-testing."

You lie on a table and place your feet in stirrups. The health care provider
places an instrument (called a speculum) into the vagina and opens it slightly
to see inside. Cells are gently collected from the cervix area. The cervix is
the lower part of the womb (uterus) that opens at the top of the vagina.

The cells are sent to a laboratory for examination under a microscope. This
examiner checks to see if the cells contain genetic material (called DNA) from
types of HPV that cause cancer. More tests may be done to determine the exact
type of HPV.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Avoid the following for 24 hours before the test:

    * Douching
    * Having intercourse
    * Taking a bath
    * Using tampons 

Empty your bladder just before the test.

## How the Test will Feel

The exam may cause some discomfort. Some women say it feels like menstrual
cramps.

You may also feel some pressure during the exam.

You may bleed a bit after the test.

## Why the Test Is Performed

High-risk types of HPV can lead to cervical cancer or anal cancer. The HPV-DNA
test is done to determine if you are infected with one of these high-risk
types. Certain low risk types may also be identified by the test.

Your doctor may order an HPV-DNA test:

    * If you have a certain type of abnormal Pap test result.
    * Along with a Pap smear to screen women age 30 and older for cervical cancer.
    * Instead of a Pap smear to screen women age 30 for cervical cancer. (Note: Some experts suggest this approach for women 25 and older.) 

The HPV test results help your doctor decide if further testing or treatment
is needed.

## Normal Results

A normal result means you do not have a high-risk type of HPV. Some tests will
also check for the presence of low-risk HPV, and this may be reported. If you
are positive for low-risk HPV, your provider will guide you in making
decisions about treatment.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An abnormal result means you have a high-risk type of HPV.

High-risk types of HPV may cause cervical cancer and cancer of the throat,
tongue, anus, or vagina.

Most of the time, cervical cancer related to HPV is due to the following
types:

    * HPV-16 (high risk type)
    * HPV-18 (high risk type)
    * HPV-31
    * HPV-33
    * HPV-35
    * HPV-45
    * HPV-52
    * HPV-58 

Other high-risk types of HPV are less common.

## Alternative Names

Human papilloma virus - testing; Abnormal Pap smear - HPV testing; LSIL-HPV
testing; Low-grade dysplasia - HPV testing; HSIL - HPV testing; High-grade
dysplasia - HPV testing; HPV testing in women; Cervical cancer - HPV DNA test;
Cancer of cervix - HPV DNA test

## References

Hacker NF. Cervical dysplasia and cancer. In: Hacker NF, Gambone JC, Hobel CJ,
eds. _Hacker and Moore's Essentials of Obstetrics and Gynecology_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 38.

Practice bulletin No. 157: cervical cancer screening and prevention. _Obstet
Gynecol_. 2016;127(1):e1-e20. PMID: 26695583
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26695583.

US Preventive Services Task Force, Curry SJ, Krist AH, Owens DK, et al.
Screening for cervical cancer: US Preventive Services Task Force
recommendation statement. _JAMA_. 2018;320(7):674-686. PMID: 30140884
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30140884.

Wang ZX, Peiper SC. HPV detection techniques. In: Bibbo M, Wilbur DC, eds.
_Comprehensive Cytopathology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 38.

## Review Date 9/25/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cervical Cancer
Screening](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CervicalCancerScreening_thumb.jpg)Cervical
Cancer Screening _Read more_

![HPV](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HPV_thumb.jpg)HPV _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

