

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Tuberculosis (TB)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syndicate

# Tuberculosis in the United States Slide Set

Minus

Related Pages

Return to Main Menu

NOTE: The slide set is in the public domain. You may reproduce these slides
without permission. You are also free to adapt and revise these slides;
however, you must remove the CDC name and logo if changes are made.

![Tuberculosis in the United States—National Tuberculosis Surveillance System,
Highlights from 2018. This slide set was prepared by the Division of
Tuberculosis Elimination, National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD,
and TB Prevention \(NCHHSTP\), Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
\(CDC\), U.S. Department of Health and Human Services \(HHS\). It provides
recent trends and highlights of data collected through the National
Tuberculosis Surveillance System \(NTSS\) for 2018. Since 1953, through the
cooperation of state and local health departments, CDC has collected
information on newly reported cases of tuberculosis \(TB\) disease in the
United States. The data presented here were collected by the revised TB case
report introduced in 2009. Each individual TB case report \(Report of Verified
Case of Tuberculosis, or RVCT\) is submitted electronically to CDC. The data
for this slide set are based on TB case reports for 1993–2018 received by CDC
as of June 6, 2019. All case counts and rates for years 1993–2017 have been
updated and data from 2018 has been
added.](/tb/statistics/surv/surv2018/images/Slide1.PNG)

### Slide 1

![During 2018, the United States reported the lowest number of TB cases
\(9,025\) and lowest incidence rate \(2.8 cases per 100,000 persons\) on
record. With the exception of 2015, the US TB case count and incidence rate
have declined every year since
1992.](/tb/statistics/surv/surv2018/images/Slide2.PNG)

### Slide 2

![The annual incidence rate decrease \(−1.3%\) from 2017 to 2018 and percent
decrease in case count \(−0.7%, not shown\) is the smallest year-to-year
decrease since 1993, excluding an increase in
2015.](/tb/statistics/surv/surv2018/images/Slide3.PNG)

### Slide 3

![The National Vital Statistics System reported 515 TB-related deaths \(0.2
deaths per 100,000 persons\) for 2017, the most recent year for which data are
available. This represents a 2.5% decrease in deaths and a 3.1% decrease in
the mortality rate from 2016, although 2017 deaths remain higher than the
historical low of 470 deaths \(0.1 deaths per 100,000 persons\) reported in
2015.](/tb/statistics/surv/surv2018/images/Slide4.PNG)

### Slide 4

![Among U.S. states, the majority of TB cases continue to be reported from
California \(23.2%\), Texas \(12.5%\), New York \(8.3%\), and Florida
\(6.5%\).](/tb/statistics/surv/surv2018/images/Slide5.PNG)

### Slide 5

![When considering incidence rates by reporting area, Alaska \(8.5 cases per
100,000 persons\) has the highest TB rate, followed by Hawaii \(8.4\), New
York City \(6.7\), California \(5.3\), the District of Columbia \(5.1\), and
Texas \(3.9\).](/tb/statistics/surv/surv2018/images/Slide6.PNG)

### Slide 6

![TB Case Rates by Age Group, United States, 1993–2016. During 2016, case
rates in all age groups declined by >50% from their 1993 values: persons aged
≥65 years, from 17.7 cases/100,000 population in 1993 to 4.6 in 2016; adults
aged 45–64 years, from 12.5 to 3.4; adults aged 25–44 years, from 11.6 to 3.3;
persons aged 15–24 years, from 5.0 to 2.2; children aged 5 to 14 years, from
1.7 to 0.4; and children aged ≤4 years, from 5.2 to
1.1.](/tb/statistics/surv/surv2018/images/Slide7.PNG)

### Slide 7

![Reported TB Cases by Age Group, United States, 2016. Two percent of TB cases
were among children aged 0–4 years; 2% were among those aged 5–14 years; 10%
were among persons aged 15–24 years; 31% were among adults aged 25–44 years;
31% were among adults aged 45–64 years; and 24% were among adults aged ≥65
years.](/tb/statistics/surv/surv2018/images/Slide8.PNG)

### Slide 8

![TB Case Rates by Age Group and Sex, United States, 2016. Case rates tended
to increase with age, ranging from <1 case/100,000 children aged 5–14 years to
a high of 6.4 cases/100,000 men aged ≥65 years. As age increased, the case
rate among men increased faster than women; the rates among men aged ≥45 years
were approximately twice those among women of the same
age.](/tb/statistics/surv/surv2018/images/Slide9.PNG)

### Slide 9

![TB Case Rates by Race/Ethnicity, United States, 2003–2016. By
race/ethnicity, the rates indicate a declining trend in TB since 2003. Asians
consistently had the highest yearly TB rates, but their rates declined from
29.3 cases/100,000 population in 2003 to 18.0 in 2016, a 38.6% decrease. Rates
also declined among the following racial/ethnic groups: non-Hispanic
blacks/African Americans, from 11.7 in 2003 to 4.9 in 2016 \(–58.2%\);
Hispanics, from 10.2 to 4.5 \(–55.8%\); non-Hispanic whites, from 1.4 to 0.6
\(–57.1%\); American Indians and Alaska Natives, from 8.3 to 4.7 \(–43.6%\);
and Native Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islanders, from 15.7 to 13.9 \(–11.2%\).
Because of the low TB case counts and population estimates for Native
Hawaiians/Other Pacific Islanders in the United States, case rates for this
group might appear high. \(Percentage change are based off of unrounded
numbers.\)](/tb/statistics/surv/surv2018/images/Slide10.PNG)

### Slide 10

![TB Case Rates by Age Group and Race/Ethnicity, United States, 2016. After
infancy \(ages 0–4 years\), risk typically increased with age across all
racial/ethnic groups, except among Native Hawaiians/Other Pacific Islanders,
which did not indicate a trend. Rates were consistently higher among minority
racial/ethnic groups than among non-Hispanic whites. Rates were the highest
among Asians and Native Hawaiians/Other Pacific Islanders. Because of the low
TB case counts and population estimates for Native Hawaiians/Other Pacific
Islanders in the United States, case rates for this group might appear
high.](/tb/statistics/surv/surv2018/images/Slide11.PNG)

### Slide 11

![Reported TB Cases by Race/Ethnicity, United States, 2016. During 2016,
approximately 86% of all reported TB cases occurred among racial/ethnic
minorities: Asians, 35%; Hispanics, 28%; non-Hispanic blacks/African
Americans, 21%; American Indians/Alaska Natives, 1%; and Native
Hawaiians/Other Pacific Islanders, 1%. In contrast, 13% of cases occurred
among non-Hispanic whites. Persons reporting two or more races, not including
persons of Hispanic or Latino ethnicity, accounted for 1% of all cases.
Unknown or missing data on race accounted for <0.5% of all
cases.](/tb/statistics/surv/surv2018/images/Slide12.PNG)

### Slide 12

![Number of TB Cases Among U.S.-Born versus Non-U.S.–Born Persons, United
States 1993–2016. The graph illustrates the increase in the percentage of
cases occurring among non-U.S.–born persons during the study period, from 30%
in 1993 to 69% in 2016. Overall, the number of cases among non-U.S.–born
remained stable before 2009, with approximately 7,400–8,000 cases/year. During
2009, the number decreased to 6,999, and that trend continued through 2013,
with the number of cases among non-U.S.–born persons decreasing to 6,222.
However, in 2014 and 2015 the number of cases among non-U.S.–born persons
increased to a high of 6,406 in 2015. In 2016, the number of cases decreased
from 2015 to 6,351 cases. Among U.S.-born persons the number of cases
decreased from >17,000 in 1993 to 2,901 in
2016.](/tb/statistics/surv/surv2018/images/Slide13.PNG)

### Slide 13

![Trends in TB Cases Among Non-U.S.–Born Persons, United States, 1993–2016.
The percentage of TB cases accounted for among non-U.S.–born persons increased
from 30% in 1993 to 69% in
2016.](/tb/statistics/surv/surv2018/images/Slide14.PNG)

### Slide 14

![Reported TB Cases by Origin and Race/Ethnicity, United States, 2016. Among
U.S.-born persons with TB in 2016, 37% were non-Hispanic black/African
American; 31% were non-Hispanic white, 21% were Hispanic/Latino; 5% were
Asian; 4% were American Indian/Alaska Native; and 1% were Native
Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander. Persons reporting two or more races totaled
<1% of cases among U.S.-born persons. Among non-U.S.–born persons with TB, 48%
were Asian; 31% were Hispanic/Latino; 14% were non-Hispanic black/African
American; 5% were non-Hispanic white; 1% were Native Hawaiian/Pacific
Islander; and 1% were persons reporting two or more races, not including
persons of Hispanic/Latino origin. Cases among American Indians/Alaska Natives
constituted 0.3% of the cases among non-U.S.–born persons and are not included
on the charts.](/tb/statistics/surv/surv2018/images/Slide15.PNG)

### Slide 15

![Percentage of Non-U.S.–Born Persons Among TB Cases, United States, 2006 and
2016. The number of states with <25% of their TB cases occurring among
non-U.S.–born persons decreased from 6 states in 2006 to 4 states in 2016. The
number of states with ≥25%–49% of cases among non-U.S.–born persons decreased
from 16 states and DC in 2006 to 8 states in 2016. However, the number of
states that had ≥50% of their cases among non-U.S.–born persons increased from
28 states in 2006 to 38 states and DC in
2016.](/tb/statistics/surv/surv2018/images/Slide16.PNG)

### Slide 16

![TB Case Rates Among U.S.-Born versus Non-U.S.–Born Persons, United States,
1993–2016. TB rates among non-U.S.–born remain higher than those among the
U.S.-born population. During 1993–2016, the rate among U.S.-born persons
decreased from 7.4 cases/100,000 population to 1.1, whereas the rates among
non-U.S.–born persons decreased from 34.0 cases/100,000 population to
14.7.](/tb/statistics/surv/surv2018/images/Slide17.PNG)

### Slide 17

![TB Case Rates Among U.S.-Born versus Non-U.S.–Born Persons, United States,
1993–2016. The chart presents the same data as on Slide 17, but uses a
logarithmic scale to better illustrate the trends. The trend lines indicate a
greater rate of decrease among U.S.-born, compared with non-U.S.–born, persons
during the study period.](/tb/statistics/surv/surv2018/images/Slide18.PNG)

### Slide 18

![Countries of Birth Among Non-U.S.–Born Persons Reported with TB, United
States, 2016. The top seven countries are displayed in the chart; those
countries have remained relatively constant since 1986, when information
regarding country of birth was first reported by all areas submitting reports
to CDC. During 2016, the top seven countries accounted for 60% of all cases
among non-U.S.–born persons, with Mexico accounting for 19%; the Philippines,
12%; India, 9%; Vietnam, 8%; China, 6%; Guatemala, 3%; and Haiti, 3%. Persons
from 135 other countries each accounted for ≤2% of the total, but altogether,
accounted for 40% of non-U.S.–born persons reported with
TB.](/tb/statistics/surv/surv2018/images/Slide19.PNG)

### Slide 19

![Percentage of Non-U.S.–Born Persons with TB, by Time of Residence in U.S.
Before Diagnosis, 2016. The chart indicates that the distribution for the top
three countries of birth is Mexico, the Philippines, and India. Among persons
born in Mexico, 11.2% had been in the United States for <1 year; 6.5%, 1–4
years; 8.4%, 5–9 years; 22.9%, 10–19 years; and 39.8% for ≥20 years. Among
persons born in the Philippines, 11.6% had been in the United States for <1
year; 9.9%, 1–4 years; 12.4%, 5–9 years; 21.4%, 10–19 years; and 33.2%, ≥20
years. Among persons born in India, 21.1% had been in the United States for <1
year; 26.8%, 1–4 years; 13.2%, 5–9 years; 18.8%, 10–19 years; and 13.8%, ≥20
years. Values for unknown length of residence in the United States for these
top three countries ranged from 6.3 to 11.5% for 2016. For all other
non-U.S.–born persons, 20.4% had been in the United States for <1 year; 17.9%,
1–4 years; 12.9%, 5–9 years; 18.1%, 10–19 years; 22.8%, ≥20 years; and 7.9%,
unknown length of residence. Overall, 17.6% had been in the United States for
<1 year; 15.6%, 1–4 years; 12.0%, 5–9 years; 19.5%, 10–19 years; 26.5%, ≥20
years; and 8.8%, unknown length of
residence.](/tb/statistics/surv/surv2018/images/Slide20.PNG)

### Slide 20

![Primary Anti-TB Drug Resistance, United States, 1993–2016. The graph starts
in 1993, the year in which the individual TB case reports submitted to the
national surveillance system began collecting information regarding initial
susceptibility test results for patients with culture-positive TB. Data were
available for >86.9% of culture-positive cases for each year. Primary
resistance was calculated by using data from persons with no reported prior TB
episode. Resistance to at least isoniazid was 8.2% in 1993; however, by 2016,
this had increased to 8.7%. Resistance to at least isoniazid and rifampin,
known as multidrug-resistant TB \(MDR TB\), was 2.5% in 1993. The percent of
primary MDR TB has remained approximately stable since it decreased to 1.0% in
1998. In 2016 the percent of primary MDR TB was
1.2%.](/tb/statistics/surv/surv2018/images/Slide21.PNG)

### Slide 21

![Primary MDR-TB, United States, 1993–2016. This graph focuses on trends in
primary multidrug-resistant TB \(MDR-TB\), which is based on initial isolates
from persons with no prior history of TB. The number of primary MDR-TB cases,
represented by the bars, decreased steadily from 407 in 1993 to 115 in 2001,
with a slight increase to 132 in 2002. Since then, the total number of primary
MDR-TB cases has fluctuated from 70 to 103 cases, with 78 cases reported for
2016. Primary MDR-TB, indicated by the trend line, decreased from 2.5% in 1993
to approximately 1.0% in 1998, and has fluctuated approximately 1.0% since
then. During 2016, the percentage was
1.2%.](/tb/statistics/surv/surv2018/images/Slide22.PNG)

### Slide 22

![Primary Isoniazid Resistance Among U.S.-Born versus Non-U.S.–Born Persons,
United States, 1993–2016. On the basis of initial isolates from persons with
no prior history of TB, the percentage of isoniazid resistance has remained
higher among non-U.S.–born persons than among U.S.-born persons for all years
measured. Among non-U.S.–born persons, the percentage declined from 12.1% in
1993 to 10.0% in 2016. In U.S.-born persons, the percentage decreased from
6.7% in 1993 to a low of 4.2% in 2007. From 2008 to 2016 the percentage of
cases ranged from 5.2% in 2008 to a high of 7.5% in 2014. During 2016, the
percentage of primary isoniazid resistance among U.S.-born cases was
5.9%.](/tb/statistics/surv/surv2018/images/Slide23.PNG)

### Slide 23

![Slide 24. Primary MDR-TB in U.S.-born vs. Non-U.S.–born Persons, United
States, 1993–2016. This graph highlights primary MDR-TB in U.S.-born versus
non-U.S.–born persons. The percentage with primary MDR-TB has declined among
both groups since 1993, although the decline in the U.S.-born has been
greater. As a result, the proportion of primary MDR-TB cases in the US that
are attributed to non-U.S.–born persons increased from approximately 25% in
1993 to 90% in 2016 \(not shown on slide\). Among the U.S.-born, the
percentage with primary MDR-TB has been less than 1% since 1997 and was 0.4%
in 2016. The percentage among non-U.S.–born persons has fluctuated year by
year, although it has remained between 1.2 and 1.8% since 1995. In 2016 the
percentage of primary MDR-TB among non-U.S.–born persons was
1.5%.](/tb/statistics/surv/surv2018/images/Slide24.PNG)

### Slide 24

![The vast majority \(89.2%\) of patients in 2016 who were eligible, completed
treatment within 1 year of diagnosis. An additional 6.4% of these patients
completed treatment >1 year after
diagnosis.](/tb/statistics/surv/surv2018/images/Slide25.PNG)

### Slide 25

![During 2018, 605 isoniazid-resistant TB cases were reported in the United
States, a 3% decrease from 625 cases during 2017. However, as a percentage of
all TB cases, the proportion that were resistant to isoniazid has remained
relatively steady at approximately
9%.](/tb/statistics/surv/surv2018/images/Slide26.PNG)

### Slide 26

![Volatility associated with small case counts is also a concern for MDR TB
cases reported in the United States. During 2018, a previous notable increase
in MDR TB cases \(from 97 cases during 2016 to 128 cases during 2017\) was
reversed, with 98 MDR TB cases being reported for
2018.](/tb/statistics/surv/surv2018/images/Slide27.PNG)

### Slide 27

![The percentage of all cases occurring among persons with no previous history
of TB disease that was MDR TB \(i.e., primary MDR TB\) has remained steady for
the past several years at approximately
1%.](/tb/statistics/surv/surv2018/images/Slide28.PNG)

### Slide 28

![Coinfection with HIV is a major risk factor for progression of latent TB
infection to TB disease. Starting in this edition of the report, we are
limiting HIV coinfection trend data to 2011–2018 because HIV status data
before 2011 had <90% completeness and data were most likely not missing at
random, which can result in overestimation of HIV coinfection. Among 2018
cases that were alive at diagnosis, HIV status was known for 87.9%, and 5.1%
of persons with known HIV status were coinfected with HIV. Among TB cases
diagnosed in persons 25–44 years of age, 92.4% had known HIV status, and 8.3%
of these persons where HIV
positive.](/tb/statistics/surv/surv2018/images/Slide29.PNG)

### Slide 29

![Among reported risk factors for TB, diabetes mellitus \(19.8%\) was most
commonly reported, followed by having been a close contact of a person with
infectious TB \(7.7%\) or an immunocompromising condition other than HIV
\(7.3%\). Having been a contact of a person with infectious TB was
proportionately more common among US-born persons \(15.9%\), compared with
non-US–born persons \(4.2%\). Diabetes mellitus, however, was proportionately
more common among non-US–born persons \(22.0%\), compared with US-born persons
\(14.6%\).](/tb/statistics/surv/surv2018/images/Slide30.PNG)

### Slide 30

![Definition for Tuberculosis Genotyping in the United States. This slide
shows the schematic for sequential assignment of unique spoligotypes and
initial 12-locus MIRU-VNTR combination or 24-locus MIRU-VNTR
combination.](/tb/statistics/surv/surv2018/images/Slide31.PNG)

### Slide 31

![National Tuberculosis Genotyping Surveillance Coverage by Year, United
States, 2004–2016. This slide shows the increase in genotyping surveillance
coverage from 2004 to 2016. In 2004 the proportion of positive cultures with
at least one genotyped isolate was 52.6%; in 2016 it was 96.4%. The national
goal for genotyping surveillance coverage is
94.0%.](/tb/statistics/surv/surv2018/images/Slide32.PNG)

### Slide 32

![Number of County-based Tuberculosis Genotype Clusters by Cluster Size,
United States, 2014–2016. This slide shows the number of county-based TB
genotype clusters by the size of the clusters; genotype cluster is defined as
two or more cases with matching spoligotype and 24-locus MIRU-VNTR \(GENType\)
within a county during the specified three year time period. In the 2014–2016
three year time period, there were 878 two-case clusters, 263 three-case
clusters, 105 four-case clusters, 43 five-case clusters, 25 six-case clusters,
26 seven-case clusters, 14 eight-case clusters, 10 nine-case clusters, and 37
case clusters that were greater or equal to 10 in
size.](/tb/statistics/surv/surv2018/images/Slide33.PNG)

### Slide 33

![Tuberculosis Genotype Clusters by TB GIMS Alert Levels, United States,
2014–2016. This slide shows a chart with percentage of genotype clusters by
alert level. Alert level is determined by the log likelihood ratio statistic
\(LLR\) for a given cluster, identifying higher than expected geospatial
concentrations for a TB genotype cluster in a specific county, compared to the
national distribution of that genotype; TB GIMS generates alert level
notifications based on this statistic: “No alert” is indicated if LLR is
between 0–<5, “medium” is for LLR of 5–<10 and “high” alert is for clusters
with LLR ≥10. In the 2014–2016 three year time period, high alerts made up 6%
of the total, medium alerts were 23%, and no alert were
71%.](/tb/statistics/surv/surv2018/images/Slide34.PNG)

### Slide 34

![For more information, please contact Division of Tuberculosis Elimination at
http://www.cdc.gov/tb/.](/tb/statistics/surv/surv2018/images/Slide35.PNG)

### Slide 35

![During 2018, 21.8% of all 2018 TB patients aged ≥15 years reported being
unemployed; an additional 33.7% of TB patients were not seeking employment or
were retired.](/tb/statistics/surv/surv2018/images/Slide36.PNG)

### Slide 36

![Successful therapy completion for TB patients is a major performance
indicator for TB programs. Among patients during 2016 who were alive at
diagnosis, 87.2% had completed TB treatment successfully. Among TB patients
who had not completed treatment, 6.7% of all patients died before completing
TB treatment; 1.3% were lost to follow-up before completing treatment; and
4.5% did not complete treatment for other or unknown reasons. Of note, only 29
patients \(0.3%\) had to permanently stop TB treatment because of an adverse
treatment event.](/tb/statistics/surv/surv2018/images/Slide37.PNG)

### Slide 37

![Among TB cases diagnosed during 2016, a total of 833 \(9.0%\) patients died,
with 315 \(37.8%\) of those deaths attributed to TB disease or TB
treatment.](/tb/statistics/surv/surv2018/images/Slide38.PNG)

### Slide 38

![Of the 833 deaths, 206 \(24.7%\) were dead at the time of TB diagnosis;
33.5% of those deaths were attributed to TB. The remaining 627 \(75.3%\)
deaths occurred after diagnosis; 39.2% of these deaths were attributed to
TB.](/tb/statistics/surv/surv2018/images/Slide39.PNG)

### Slide 39

![Time required for a patient’s positive sputum culture to convert to negative
is a key indicator of treatment effectiveness. Among 5,115 cases during 2016
with positive sputum cultures, 4,215 \(82.4%\) had documented sputum culture
conversion to negative. Among the 809 \(15.8%\) cases for which sputum culture
conversion was undocumented, the most common reason was that the patient had
died \(30.3%\) before sputum culture conversion; however, a substantial
proportion of these cases \(36.8%\) did not have a known reason reported for
not having documented sputum culture
conversion.](/tb/statistics/surv/surv2018/images/Slide40.PNG)

### Slide 40

![This slide shows the schematic for sequential assignment of unique
spoligotypes and initial 12-locus MIRU-VNTR combination or 24-locus MIRU-VNTR
combination.](/tb/statistics/surv/surv2018/images/Slide41.PNG)

### Slide 41

![This slide shows the increase in genotyping surveillance coverage from 2004
to 2018. In 2004 the proportion of culture confirmed TB cases with at least
one genotyped isolate was 52.6%; in 2018 it was 96.3%. The national goal for
genotyping surveillance coverage is
94.0%.](/tb/statistics/surv/surv2018/images/Slide42.PNG)

### Slide 42

![This slide shows the number of county-based TB genotype clusters by the size
of the clusters; a genotype cluster is defined as two or more cases with
matching spoligotype and 24-locus MIRU-VNTR \(GENType\) within a county during
the specified three year time period. In the 2016–2018 three year time period,
there were 893 two-case clusters, 224 three-case clusters, 90 four-case
clusters, 42 five-case clusters, 33 six-case clusters, 21 seven-case clusters,
5 eight-case clusters, 12 nine-case clusters, and 29 case clusters that were
greater or equal to 10 in
size.](/tb/statistics/surv/surv2018/images/Slide43.PNG)

### Slide 43

![Clusters are classified into alert levels on the basis of a log-likelihood
ratio \(LLR\) calculation; clusters with an LLR of 5–10 are classified as a
medium alert level, and clusters with an LLR ≥11 are classified as a high
alert level. Clustered cases were often part of medium- \(22.6%\) or high-
level alerts \(18.6%\). At the cluster level, 392 \(29.1%\) of 1,349 clusters
identified nationally were either medium- or high-level
alerts.](/tb/statistics/surv/surv2018/images/Slide44.PNG)

### Slide 44

![Nationally, CDC attributed 1,712 \(12.6%\) of 13,601 genotyped cases
reported during 2017–2018 to recent
transmission.](/tb/statistics/surv/surv2018/images/Slide45.PNG)

### Slide 45

National Tuberculosis Surveillance System Highlights from 2018

This slide series was developed as an accompaniment to the document Reported
Tuberculosis in the United States, 2018

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Download complete set (45 slides) 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * PowerPoint ppt icon[PPT - 7 MB]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * PDF pdf icon[PDF - 2 MB]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Slide Set Narrative pdf icon[PDF - 188 KB]

Related Links

Archived Surveillance Slide Sets

Page last reviewed: September 6, 2019

Content source: Division of Tuberculosis Elimination

home Tuberculosis

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Basic TB Factsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * How TB Spreads
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Latent TB Infection and TB Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Risk Factors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Exposure to TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB & HIV Coinfection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB and Diabetes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Terms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Personal Storiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Kristi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Laura
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Kelcie
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tenzin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mildred
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Shaka
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Kelly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Kim
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Emily
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jerry
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Kate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nauman
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nicole
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Thomas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Natalie
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Esteban and Danielle
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Deo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Kenni
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Rosalie and Faith
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Rick and Francene
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Santos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mabruka
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Liliana
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Martha
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tri
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Sarah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Testing & Diagnosisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Who Should be Tested
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Testing for TB Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Testing in BCG-Vaccinated Persons
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Screening and Testing of Health Care Personnel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Testing During Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Diagnosing latent TB infection and TB disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Treatmentplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Deciding When to Treat Latent TB Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Treatment Regimens for Latent TB Infection (LTBI)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Treatment for TB Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Adverse Events
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Treatment of Persons Living with HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Treatment and Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Treatment for Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Drug-Resistant TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Researchplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Epidemiologic Studies Consortiumplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Research Projects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Publications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Trials Consortiumplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Study Descriptions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Background
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Behavioral & Social Science Research
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Care Settingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Infection Control in Health Care Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Resources for TB Screening and Testing of Health Care Personnelplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * TB in Specific Populationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * African-American Communityplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Stop TB in the African-American Community Summit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Background
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Slideset
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Asian Community
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Correctional Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Homelessness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * International Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Health Disparities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Laboratory Informationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Drug Susceptibility Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * False-Positive Investigation Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Interim Laboratory Biosafety Guidance for XDR _Mycobacterium_ tuberculosis strains
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Model Performance Evaluation Program (MPEP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Rapid Molecular Testing to Detect Drug-Resistant TB in the USplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Executive Summary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Introduction
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Background on Tests for Molecular Detection of DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * General Considerations and Principles for a Molecular DR Testing Service
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Possible Scenarios and Scope of Testing for a Molecular DR Testing Service
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Research Needs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * General Recommendations of the Expert Panel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Communication Plan for the Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Recommendations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * References
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Panel Members and CDC Participants
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Appendix 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Appendix 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Appendix 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Uses of Nucleic Acid Amplification Tests for the Diagnosis of TBplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * General Considerations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * General Recommendations of the Expert Panel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Recommendations to ACET, CDC, DTBE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Data & Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Incidence in the United States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Reported TB in the US, 2018 Surveillance Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Trends in Tuberculosis 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tuberculosis in the United States, 2018 (Slide Set)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Archived Surveillance Reports and Slide Sets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2018 State and City Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Archived State and City Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Professional Resources & Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tools for Healthcare Providersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Interactive Core Curriculum on Tuberculosis: What the Clinician Should Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Resources for TB Programsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Centers of Excellence 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Publications & Productsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Patient and Public Materials
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Fact Sheetsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * General
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data & Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Drug-Resistant TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Infection Control & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB in Specific Populations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Testing & Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Vaccines & Immunizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidelinesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Contact Investigations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Control & Elimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Drug-Resistant TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Genotyping
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Infection Control & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Laboratory
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB & HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB in Specific Populations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Testing & Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Vaccines & Immunizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Guidelines by Date
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guides & Toolkitsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Aggregate Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TB Surveillance Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Core Curriculum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Effective TB Interviewing for Contact Investigation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Ethnographic Guides
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * False-Positive Investigation Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Forging Partnerships to Eliminate TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Guide to Application of Genotyping
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LTBI: A Guide for Primary Health Care Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Mantoux Tuberculin Skin Testing Products
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Report of Verified Case of Tuberculosis (RVCT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Self-Study Modules
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Contact Investigation Interviewing Skills Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB eDOT Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Understanding the TB Cohort Review Process
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Newslettersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 4, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 3, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 2, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 1, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 6, 2018Â 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 5, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 4, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 3, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 2, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 1, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 5, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 4, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 3, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 2, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 1, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 5, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 4, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 3, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 2, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 1, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Pamphlets, Brochures, Bookletsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Questions and Answers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Patient Education Series
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tuberculosis â Get the Facts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tuberculosis â The Connection between TB and HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 12-Dose Regimen for Latent TB Infection-Patient Education Brochure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Postersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Mantoux Tuberculin Skin Test Wall Chart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * World TB Day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Think TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Stop TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Reports & Articlesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Reports (MMWRs)_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * DTBE Authored Journal Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tuberculosis Laboratory Aggregate Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Slide Setsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Epidemiology of Tuberculosis Among Non-U.S.ââBorn Persons in the United States, 1993â2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Self-Study Modules on Tuberculosis, 1-5 Slide Sets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Tuberculosis (TB) in Correctional Settingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facilitator Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Introduction to TB Genotyping
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Core Curriculum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Epidemiology of Tuberculosis in Correctional Facilities, United States, 1993-2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Prevention and Control of Tuberculosis in Correctional and Detention Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Guidelines for Preventing the Transmission of M. TB in Health care Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Investigation of Contacts of Persons with Infectious TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Epidemiology of Pediatric Tuberculosis in the United States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Targeted Tuberculosis Testing and Treatment of Latent Tuberculosis Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Electronic Tools & Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Web-Based Courses & Webinarsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB 101 for Health Care Workersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB 101
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Interactive Core Curriculum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Program Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Content Syndication
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Infographicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Social Media Graphics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Customizable Take on TB Infographic with Instructions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Events
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * World TB Dayplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * U.S. TB Championsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2020 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2019 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2018 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2017 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2016 Supporting TB Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2016 Building Partnerships
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2016 Expanding Testing and Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2016 Focusing on Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2016 Maximizing Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Activities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Linksplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * State TB Control Offices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * About Usplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mission Statement and Activitiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * DTBE Strategic Plan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * National TB Program Objectives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Organization Chart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Advisory Groupsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Federal TB Task Force

![NCHHSTP AtlasPlus gives you the power to access data reported to CDC’s
National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention
\(NCHHSTP\). Use HIV, viral hepatitis, STD, and TB data to create maps,
charts, and detailed reports, and analyze trends and
patterns](https://www.cdc.gov/nchhstp/atlas/images/buttons/AtlasPlus-180x150.jpg)

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

ppt PDF

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[GATS]: Global Adult Tobacco Survey
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[17 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[19 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 5:00 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 1:27 PM

