

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Tuberculosis (TB)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syndicate

# 2017 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions

Minus

Related Pages

# Expanding testing and treatment options of latent TB infection (LTBI)

Return to TB Elimination Champions

Open All Close All

The Allentown Health Bureau Control Team

![The Allentown Health Bureau Control Team
](/tb/worldtbday/2017/images/AllentownHealthBureauTeam.jpg)The Allentown
Health Bureau TB Control Team in Pennsylvania are definitely TB Elimination
Champions.  The team is composed of TB Physician/Medical Advisor Marcelo
Gareca, MD; TB Control Program Manager Benjamin Lego, MPH, RN-BC, CIC; and TB
Control Nurses Margot Messer, RN, Kim Stengele, RN, and Alicia Johnson, MN,
RN.  The team successfully engaged in expanded testing and treatment for
latent TB infection,  including: low-cost/free TB screening for the community;
incorporation of Interferon-Gamma Release Assays (IGRAs) testing into our
practice;  and expanded no-cost treatment options for latent tuberculosis
infection.

Many employers in the Lehigh Valley require prospective employees to undergo
TB testing, normally a TB skin test prior to being given an offer of
employment.  While the larger hospitals in our area provide this service
themselves, many organizations do not.  Individuals interested in pursuing a
home health or teaching career must go somewhere else to receive this test.
Often, these individuals are uninsured and going to a physician practice is
out of the question for them.  Persons interested in volunteering with the
local school district must also undergo TB testing. The Allentown Health
Bureau's public health partners, the Bethlehem Health Bureau, and the Lehigh
County State Health Center, do not offer routine walk in testing for TB.  The
Allentown Health Bureau fills this gap by offering walk-in, routine, TB
testing on a weekly basis.  The cost for TB skin testing is the lowest in the
area, at only $5.  If the individual cannot afford the $5 cost, the fee can be
waived.

If TB skin testing is contraindicated, IGRA blood test can be offered.  Our
practice sees a large number of immigrant patients.  Often, these patients
have received the BCG vaccine within the last five years, which can cause a
false-positive TB skin test result.  Through hospital contributions, we can
provide insured and uninsured individuals the opportunity to receive free IGRA
blood testing.  Neither of these require an office visit fee or copayment.
Being able to provide expanded testing allows our team to quickly and
efficiently find persons with latent tuberculosis infection in the community.

Ultimately, individuals who test positive (either through TB skin test or IGRA
blood test) are scheduled into our TB Clinic and assessed by our TB physician.
Our TB physician and TB control nurses explain the benefits of being treated
for latent TB infection, as well as the risk of conversion to active TB
disease if they do not receive treatment.  The vast majority of these patients
agree to treatment.  Our TB Control program offers free treatment for latent
tuberculosis infection, regardless of regimen. Each patient's regimen is
tailored to their specific needs (treatment length, co-morbidities, adherence
risk).  Regimen options include nine months of isoniazid (INH), four months of
Rifampin, or 12 weeks of INH and Rifapentine.  We have had a great deal of
success with the 12 dose, once a week regimen.  Our current completion rate
with it is 100%, with no adverse reactions.

Julie Vaishampayan

![Julie Vaishampayan](/tb/worldtbday/2017/images/JulieVaishampayan.jpg)

Julie Vaishampayan, MD, MPH, is a champion in promoting TB elimination in
California. She is both the TB Controller and the Assistant Health Officer for
San Joaquin County Public Health Services. San Joaquin County is located in
California's central valley, and sees an average of 52 TB cases each year. Dr.
Vaishampayan is also the 2016-2017 President of the California TB Controllers
Association (CTCA); this is a volunteer position where she provides leadership
and advocacy on behalf of statewide TB prevention and control.

As the CTCA President, and also as the President-Elect in 2015-2016, Dr.
Vaishampayan has been involved in numerous efforts to advance TB elimination
in California. As a representative of the 61 local health jurisdiction TB
programs in the state, she advocated for the California TB Elimination
Challenge Fund in 2016, developing materials for, and meeting with, key
members of the California State Assembly. This advocacy effort was ongoing,
and Dr. Vaishampayan consistently stepped forward to do this important work.
She built momentum and support from CTCA's partners in the California
Conference of Local Health Officers whose advocacy arm, the Health Officers
Association of California, formally endorsed the effort that she led. Dr.
Vaishampayan's other advocacy efforts include identifying and reaching out to
more than 20 of California's federal representatives of jurisdictions with the
largest TB burden to provide information about TB and how it is affecting
their constituents.

As CTCA President, Dr. Vaishampayan has participated in a number of other
activities to promote the expansion of latent TB infection (LTBI) testing and
treatment in California. A major effort was her participation on the planning
committee of the CTCA annual educational conference in 2016 that focused on
LTBI. She was the facilitator for this conference which drew 180 participants
from across California and beyond. The conference focused on TB elimination,
in particular identifying opportunities and methods for scaling up testing and
treatment of LTBI. In 2016, Dr. Vaishampayan created a CTCA subcommittee to
conduct outreach to private providers to educate and encourage expansion of
LTBI testing and treatment. A goal of that group is to develop and compile
existing resources for private providers working with high-risk populations
throughout the state.

Dr. Vaishampayan is also a member of the California TB Elimination Advisory
Committee (CTEAC). Representing the CTCA, she participated in a meeting in
late 2015 to develop a draft TB elimination plan for the state of California.
In 2016, she was instrumental in moving that draft plan to a current version
that has since been disseminated both statewide and nationally. She continues
as a member of CTEAC to monitor the implementation of the _California
Tuberculosis Elimination Plan 2016-2020_.

Dr. Vaisampayana has shown exceptional vision, leadership, and passion for
creating a California free of TB. Her exemplary work consistently inspires her
staff and her collaborations, as well as TB prevention and control
professionals throughout the state.

Jason Stout

The North Carolina (NC) TB Control Program has focused on increasing uptake
and completion of treatment for latent TB infection (LTBI) by taking a
patient-centered approach to care.  Dr. Jason Stout, the NC TB controller has
led the efforts, with an incredible team made up of Julie Luffman, Myra Allen,
Elizabeth Zeringue (now retired), Jean-Marie Maillard, Jennifer Wheeler, Ellen
Forte berry (now retired), and Jeanette Green.

The team promoted the use of short-course treatment regimens for latent TB
infection, particularly 4 months of rifampin and 12 weeks of
isoniazid/rifapentine.  In order to facilitate safe use of these regimens, Dr.
Stout and his team rewrote the state TB manual to provide guidance for use of
these regimens, including assessment for drug interactions.  The program also
worked tirelessly to strongly promote use of these regimens in the state's
larger counties (where the majority of patients with latent TB infection and
active TB disease are treated), encouraging providers in these counties to
switch regimens, while also providing support and consultation to these health
care providers.  Furthermore, Dr. Stout's team worked with state legal counsel
to permit the use of Skype and Facetime to perform video-Directly Observed
Therapy (DOT), including video-Directly Observed Preventative Therapy (DOPT)
for the isoniazid/rifapentine regimen.  This has facilitated use of this
regimen by reducing patient and health department time, costs, and travel.
Finally, routine monitoring was implemented to examine use and safety of the
isoniazid/rifapentine regimen, noting a significant increase in use of this
regimen without any major safety issues.

Breathe Easy South Texas

![](/tb/worldtbday/2017/images/BreatheEasySouthTexas.jpg)Breathe Easy South
Texas (BEST) is a project utilizing Texas 1115 Medicaid Waiver funds to expand
testing and treatment for latent tuberculosis infection (LTBI),  in high-risk
populations in twenty South Texas counties. Twenty-five percent of these
counties are classified highest risk counties for TB by the Texas Department
of State Health Services.

BEST's target populations include the homeless, substance abusers, foreign
born, diabetics, those infected with HIV, healthcare workers, and those living
in congregate settings.  The BEST Model incorporates outreach and provider
education with the specific aim of increasing testing and treatment for those
with LTBI to reduce the progression to TB disease, this reducing TB incidence.

Project strategies include outreach and recruitment of providers to
participate in the project; education of providers; and access to TB experts
for consultation, training, and guidance regarding testing with interferon
gamma release assays (IGRAs) and treatment for LTBI using a 12-week, once a
week treatment regimen administered by directly observed therapy (DOT) or
other regimens as appropriate.

The founding project partners include the Texas Department of State Health
Services Region 8, University Health System -University of Texas Health San
Antonio, Heartland National TB Center, and the City of San Antonio
Metropolitan Health District.  This partnership is responsible for planning
and implementing activities to expand testing and treatment in a large
geographical area with county populations ranging from over 1.85 million to
small rural counties of less than 810 residents. The partnership includes a
growing network of urban, suburban, and rural medical providers who commit to
screen, test, and treat populations at high risk for LTBI.

**  Successes**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Project staff reached out to over 75 providers located in 20 counties
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Currently 26 unique sites are participating in the project
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * 192 individuals have been trained, including 42 eligible providers (physicians, nurse practitioners, and physician assistants)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * 22 eligible providers are now performing IGRA testing for the first time
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * 15 formal agreements have been executed representing 22 rural clinics/facilities in 14 counties
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * 8,684 high-risk individuals have been tested
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * 682 persons with positive tests for LTBI have been identified
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * 355 individuals were diagnosed with LTBI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * 205 LTBI patients were started on treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * 144 LTBI patients completed treatment (70% of possible completers)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * 3 cases of active TB were identified
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * 25.84% reduction in the number of TB cases in San Antonio since 2014

BEST's focus on high-risk populations has identified a significant number of
persons with latent TB infection in need of treatment who otherwise may not
have been detected.  The BEST Project will continue to expand activities in an
effort to continue reducing TB throughout the region.

Pennan Barry

![Pennan Barry ](/tb/worldtbday/2017/images/PennanBarry.jpg)Dr. Pennan Barry
is the Chief of the Surveillance and Epidemiology Section in the Tuberculosis
Control Branch, California Department of Public Health.  He provides
epidemiologic and clinical leadership to chart a course for the statewide TB
elimination plan in California.

As a medical epidemiologist, Dr. Barry has worked for the past several years
to identify populations in which targeted testing and treatment efforts would
yield the greatest TB prevention benefit. Dr. Barry works in concert with
modelers and stakeholders to project and quantify the relative impact of TB
reduction interventions.  The results of his work have been disseminated
through the TB Control Branch's work with partners, and through numerous
scientific papers and presentations.  The results have been used to prioritize
TB prevention and elimination efforts.

Dr. Barry successfully led a two-year effort to create a standardized tool for
risk-based latent TB infection (LTBI) screening in California.  Together with
Michael Carson, TB Program Manager in Orange County, California, Dr. Barry
conducted an intensive review of literature, including cost analyses, to
inform the tool's content. They then piloted several drafts to ensure the
tool's optimal utility.  California now has a useful, user-friendly risk
assessment tool and a companion user guide to promote risk-based TB testing.
The tool has been shared extensively with local TB control programs and
community providers in California and in other states and countries.  It has
been downloaded 4,500 times from the state website since it was posted in
October 2016.  The tool has also been posted on other websites, such as that
of the Curry International Tuberculosis Center.  The tool and the evidence
basis behind it has generated interest in proposed legislation to change
broad-based LTBI screening to a risk-based assessment among several groups at
low risk for TB disease, which may reduce resources spent on unnecessary
testing.

Tennessee Collaborative Services

The State of Tennessee's TB Program, HIV/STD & Viral Hepatitis Program,
Information Technology Services, Laboratory Services of the Department of
Health, and the Department of Corrections collaborated to provide testing for
TB infection and other diseases with overlapping risk factors, including HIV,
syphilis, gonorrhea, and chlamydia, for all inmates at the state's two
correctional intake centers. This multidisciplinary collaboration required
protocol development, resource assessment, coordination of new testing
practices at the state public health laboratory, and training the Department
of Corrections personnel, and electronic reporting of laboratory results. In
regard to TB infection, the tuberculin skin test (TST) was replaced with
QuantiFERON® TB-Gold In-Tube (QFT), an interferon-gamma release assay
performed by the Tennessee Department of Health Laboratory Services. The
initiative began in October and November 2015 at two intake prisons (men and
women).  For 2016, the team performed 5,914 QFTs at the men's intake facility
and 996 at the women's intake facility (total between both prisons 6,910).
Between both prisons they have a 5.0% positivity rate.  This has cut down on
the amount of time it takes to classify inmates and transport them to other
facilities (if needed).  This was a huge draw to the Tennessee Department of
Correction (TDOC) as they considered switching from TSTs to QFT, and which has
been the biggest impact.  TDOC is now more confident that a positive QFT is
truly indicative of TB infection and treatment is offered to every positive
QFT (unless they have a record of completing treatment in the past).  

As a result of the work of their epidemiologist, who looks up QFT, HIV, RPR,
chlamydia, and gonorrhea results on a daily basis and records these results in
a database, they are able to provide monthly testing summaries to the
Infection Control Nurses (ICNs) at each prison.  Prior to this, the ICNs at
each prison had to manually count tests and positives for a monthly Quality
Assurance (QA) report.  They were able to get access to set up the two prisons
so that they are able to submit electronic orders for each of these tests to
the state lab which involved the work of IT departments at the Department of
Health and TDOC.  From the lab side if you look at the number of QFTs that
were processed at their state lab for just patients seen at local and regional
health departments for 2015, the number was 6,036.  So when the two prisons
came on board, they added an additional 6,910 tests so the workload at the lab
doubled.  The lab has been extremely supportive and accommodating with this
additional workload. Overall, this has been an extremely successful
collaboration between the two state agencies, Tennessee Department of Health
and Tennessee Department of Correction. They are definitely TB Elimination
Champions!

Lynn Community Health Center

![Lynn Community Health Center
](/tb/worldtbday/2017/images/LynnCommunityHealthCenter.jpg)The staff of the TB
clinic/TB infection demonstration project team at the Lynn Community Health
Center (LCHC) in Lynn, Massachusetts are dedicated TB Elimination Champions.
The LCHC has partnered with the Massachusetts Department of Public Health's TB
Program (MA DPH) and the Lynn Public Health Department to implement targeted
testing and treatment of latent TB infection (LTBI) among those served by the
LCHC. This demonstration project, funded by Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention, Division of TB Elimination (DTBE), is a three year pilot project
designed to create a comprehensive strategy for addressing latent TB
infection. Although actively testing referrals for TB, the LCHC began treating
patients when the numbers became so large it was not efficient or effective to
send the patients to the state TB clinic.  The LCHC clinic staff diagnoses and
treats patients for both latent TB infection and TB disease as an effort to be
more holistic and patient centered, caring for the TB patients in a medical
home that is more accessible to them than the distant TB clinic.

Building on this earlier work and partnership with the MA DPH, the LCHC worked
closely with the MA DPH to develop the plan of action and the methodology
adopted for this project. The partnership between MA DPH and the LCHC focuses
on four interrelated activities:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Supporting community engagement to address latent TB infection;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Reducing the stigma around TB;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Educating health care providers, community organizations, and community members on advances in TB testing and treatment, and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Providing services to patients with latent TB infection served by the LCHC

The LCHC, guided by and working closely with the MA DPH, has adopted a step
wise approach to the challenge of identifying and treating those with latent
TB infection who have the greatest risk of progressing to active TB disease.
The first step is to work within the existing patient population served by the
LCHC.  After screening for risk using the targeted risk groups outlined by the
recent United States Prevention Services Task Force (USPSTF) recommendation
and the Lynn community local epidemiology, patients are given an Interferon-
Gamma Release Assay (IGRA) blood test to identify TB infection.  For those
with a positive IGRA, examination is required to rule out active TB disease.
Once TB disease is ruled out and a diagnosis of latent TB infection is made,
patients are encouraged to initiate and complete treatment.  The second step
of the project will be to engage the larger community, to reach beyond those
served by the LCHC.  The methodology includes using outreach workers from the
LCHC to partner with community‐based organizations to screen, diagnose, and
treat those with latent TB infection. The lessons learned from this
demonstration project will have nationwide implications as the project team
develops messaging and outreach efforts that can be adapted for use in other
locations and with other patient populations.  The data collected during the
project will add to the evidence‐based for cost of latent TB infection
treatment and the return on investment for cases averted.

Stephanie Quinn and Luvette Baldwin

![Stephanie Quinn](/tb/worldtbday/2017/images/StephanieQuinn.jpg)Luvette
Baldwin and Stephanie Quinn, Health Promotion Managers of the American Lung
Association of Georgia (ALAG) are TB Elimination Champions because of the
outstanding service that they provide to homeless TB patients in Georgia.
Luvette and Stephanie are responsible for housing homeless TB patients in
Georgia, and providing food, clothing, personal hygiene kits, and
transportation to their patients. District health TB programs know they can
always rely on this dynamic duo to help them speedily find housing placement
for their homeless patients in a pinch, especially during late Friday
afternoon hospital discharges. They show genuine compassion and care for the
patients, treat them with respect, and listen to their personal stories. Many
patients regard them as trusted friends. They always take after-hours phone
calls from lonely and worried patients. They bring home-cooked meals to them
during the holidays, and make sure patients have coats and gloves for winter
weather. They look for opportunities to uplift their patients, whether it be
by encouraging job training, reuniting them with family members, or helping
them gain a bit of financial stability. They counsel patients about stable
housing once their treatment is complete. Because of the work that they do,
homeless TB patients who may have otherwise been lost to follow-up
successfully complete their TB treatment.

![Luvette Baldwin](/tb/worldtbday/2017/images/LuvetteBaldwin.jpg)Luvette and
Stephanie are indispensable during difficult and challenging TB outbreaks and
contact investigations. When county health departments are investigating TB
outbreaks in communities where drug and alcohol abuse are pervasive, or in
communities that view the health department with mistrust or hostility, or
locations where most of the TB patients refuse to reveal their contacts, or
infected contacts don't take their medications, Luvette and Stephanie step in.
They strategize to find fast food restaurants and grocery chains that the
community can easily reach, obtain gift cards from these establishments, and
provide them to the county health TB programs to give as incentives to promote
cooperation in eliciting contacts and promote latent TB infection treatment
adherence. In an outbreak in North Georgia that included young children, these
incentives and enablers resulted in a 90% treatment completion rate among
infected contacts, many of whom were initially uncooperative and hostile to
the county health department. Additionally, when TB outbreaks occur in
communities where local health providers have not seen TB cases in a long
time, Luvette and Stephanie contact local caterers to provide refreshments for
Lunch and Learn sessions that the state and local TB programs conduct to raise
awareness among health providers.  For their perseverance, hard work, and
dedication to helping public health programs eliminate TB in the community,
and for their kindness to homeless TB patients, Luvette and Stephanie are
definitely recognized as TB Elimination Champions.

The Fulton County Department of Health and Wellness Tuberculosis Program

![The Fulton County Department of Health and Wellness Tuberculosis Program
](/tb/worldtbday/2017/images/FultonCountyDepartment.jpg)The Fulton County
Department of Health and Wellness (FCDHW) Tuberculosis (TB) Program in
Atlanta, Georgia, has been battling with an isoniazid-resistant TB outbreak
among its homeless community.  Fulton County's 2014 TB case rate was almost
three times the national TB case rate.

In response to the outbreak, the TB program developed a strategic plan to
reduce the transmission of TB within the homeless community. **** First was
the creation of the TB Taskforce whose mission is to forge a partnership with
Fulton County homeless shelter administrators in the fight against the
outbreak. The Taskforce, established in collaboration with MercyCare Atlanta,
meets monthly to update shelter administrators on the progress of the
outbreak, educate on preventive strategies and strengthen partnerships among
key stakeholders. Among its many achievements, the TB Taskforce enabled the TB
program to implement the requirement that you must have a current TB clearance
card in order to reside in a Fulton County shelter.  

Despite the challenge of limited staff, the TB managers and staff are labored
with daily diligence to combat the TB outbreak. The TB Program addressed the
staff shortage by developing the TB Outbreak Response Team - a group of public
health staff working solely on addressing the TB outbreak among the homeless.
Their mission included conducting routine TB screenings at homeless facilities
located in Fulton County to identify clients with latent TB infection (LTBI);
perform administrative control compliance checks at the shelters; and
administer LTBI treatment. At the beginning, the team provided tuberculin skin
tests (TST) and patient education on a daily basis at the shelters where most
of the new TB cases were recorded, providing incentives to the clients to
encourage their return for TST readings. Currently, the Outbreak Response Team
provides routine blood-based TB screenings in addition to TST and HIV/RPR
screenings.

The outbreak was associated with isoniazid-resistant TB disease, so 4 months
of Rifampin/Rifabutin regimen was selected by the Fulton TB program (per the
recommendation of Department of Public Health) for LTBI treatment among the
homeless.  The treatment is administered through daily directly observed
therapy (in clinic or field) by the Outbreak Response Team and TB clinic
staff, which has improved adherence and completion rates of treatment.

The effects of these control measures have been seen in all facets of the
outbreak. At the end of 2016, only 10 new TB cases were reported among the
homeless in Fulton County, showing a 77% decrease in the number of new TB
cases among the homeless. In addition, the shelters have demonstrated an
improvement in the knowledge and implementation of the administrative controls
recommended to reduce TB transmission. Homeless individuals with positive TB
screenings received full clinical evaluation and LTBI treatment with about 91%
of them beginning treatment.

Jonathan Iralu

![Jonathan Iralu](/tb/worldtbday/2017/images/JonathanIralu.jpg)Dr. Jonathan
Vilasier Iralu, MD FACP, is the Indian Health Service (IHS) Chief Clinical
Consultant for Infectious Diseases (ID). He is particularly recognized for his
exceptional advocacy and success in the control of tuberculosis (TB) in
Southwestern Native communities.

As the Medical Director of the Navajo Area Indian Health Service (NAIHS) TB
control program, Dr. Iralu provides clinical oversight to a user population
over 244,000 American Indians in five Federal service units on and near the
Navajo Nation. The Navajo Nation is one of the largest Indian reservations in
the U.S., consisting of more than 25,000 contiguous square miles and three
satellite communities, and extending into portions of the states of Arizona,
New Mexico, and Utah.   With some of the highest historical rates of TB in the
country, this region was the site of critical early trials of modern TB
antibiotics in the 1950s due to exceptionally high morbidity and mortality
rates.

In his mild but confident manner, Dr. Iralu has long advocated for the
education of primary providers in the recognition and treatment of latent TB
infection (LTBI).  In 2012, he authored the seminal _" Navajo Area Chest
Clinic Guidelines"_ which became a model framework for TB clinicians in remote
reservation communities. He has personally mentored dozens of internists,
pediatricians, family practitioners, and mid-level providers in order to
create a network of skilled field clinicians capable of bringing current LTBI
treatment to the most remote locales.  As the IHS ID consultant, he led the
way in adopting the Isoniazid/Rifapentine LTBI regimen (3HP) almost
immediately after release of the 2011 Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report
(MMWR) guidelines.  He subsequently employed 3HP effectively in conjunction
with three major TB outbreaks on the Navajo reservation.  Under his clinical
leadership, the Navajo Nation saw TB rates decrease from 23 cases per 100,000
population in 1995 to less than 5 cases per 100,000 population in 2015.

Dr. Iralu has also been a passionate advocate for technology and partnership
in the control of TB.  Working with the Mayo Clinic Regional Training Medical
Consultation Center (RMTCC), he helped develop a series of culturally specific
TB videos in 2016 designed to promote awareness and acceptance of TB treatment
in Native communities.  Also in 2016, with the assistance of the Arizona and
New Mexico TB programs, he pioneered a dedicated monthly Navajo TB ECHO call
to case manage 100% of the region's TB cases.  Providing both clinical
consultation and a practical series of didactic learning opportunities for
field TB clinicians on the reservation, this call has now expanded in 2017 to
include Utah Native American TB cases.

In summary, Dr. Iralu has been the medical cornerstone of Native American TB
care in the Southwest.  In a harsh underserved environment where clinician
longevity averages less than 20 months, he has served as a steadfast advocate
of high quality TB care for more than 22 years.  Dr. Iralu is truly deserving
of recognition as a TB leader, colleague and true TB Champion.

Los Angeles County Department of Public Health, Community Health Services

![Los Angeles County Department of Public Health, Community Health Services
\(CHS\) ](/tb/worldtbday/2017/images/LosAngelesCountyDepartment.jpg)The Los
Angeles County (LAC) Department of Public Health (DPH) has been monitoring an
ongoing outbreak of TB, primarily among the homeless population in LAC. A plan
to coordinate the efforts of all DPH partners was developed that focused on
three priority areas; (1.) finding and treating homeless persons with
suspected or confirmed TB disease; (2.) ensuring that contact investigations
surrounding homeless persons with infectious TB disease are done in a timely
manner; (3.) ensuring that all homeless shelter clients receive annual TB
testing and screening. While activities surrounding priority 1 and 2 are on-
going, this nomination focuses on the efforts of staff assigned to the
Satellite Health Center, located on Skid Row in Downtown Los Angeles, who have
worked tirelessly with the TB Control Program and other partners to improve
latent TB infection (LTBI) outcomes.

In 2016, Los Angeles County reported 46,000 homeless individuals, of which
approximately 3,500 are centered in the downtown area known as Skid Row.
Community Health Services (CHS), the service delivery arm of the LAC DPH,
operates a satellite clinic on Skid Row to provide public health services to
all homeless persons in the area, including adult immunizations, flu clinic,
and communicable disease triage, and TB services. Staff at the clinic include
a TB physician, clinic nurse, clerk, radiology technician, and community
worker.

Over the past three years, CHS has gone to great lengths to continuously
improve its TB services in hopes of increasing LTBI completion rates among
homeless patients, which have traditionally been below 5%. In April 2013,
Satellite Clinic staff reduced the length of LTBI treatment by taking the lead
in implementing Short Course LTBI treatment (3HP). They also increased the
number of clinic sessions to improve patient access to services; and
established multidisciplinary teams to discuss difficult patients. In 2015,
the staff streamlined the TB evaluation process for sheltered homeless clients
by combining services into fewer patient visits before starting LTBI
medications. Most recently in 2015, Tuberculosis Control Program (TBCP) worked
closely with Satellite Clinic staff to initiate a pilot LTBI housing project
for homeless clients, and utilized public health investigators for locating
patients who missed LTBI appointments.

As a result, the number of clients enrolling in 3HP has, increased each year
and completion rates have been above 65%. The willingness of this staff to
implement new and innovative practices and work with this very difficult
patient population is a model for LTBI case management.

Denver Metro TB Clinic

![Denver Metro TB Clinic
](/tb/worldtbday/2017/images/DenverMetroTBClinic.jpg)The epidemiology of TB
disease in Colorado is driven by untreated latent TB infection progressing to
TB disease.  Drs. Bob Belknap and Michelle Haas, along with their dedicated
and talented team at the Denver Metro TB Clinic (DMTBC), are generous with
their time and expertise. This reflects their willingness and desire to work
collaboratively with partners and stakeholders throughout the state in joint
efforts to eliminate TB in Colorado.

Dr. Bob Belknap has been a regionally- and nationally-recognized TB expert and
advocate for all things TB for many years. The DMTBC has been at the forefront
of TB treatment best practice for decades. Dr. Belknap has been an especially
strong voice for increasing TB funding in an era of ever-reduced budgets. He's
volunteered on the Curry Center warm line for years supporting the entire
western region of the U.S. Having worked closely with Dr. Belknap and his
clinic staff for 6 years, I've seen their drive to increase TB infection
screening, testing, and treatment. The DMTBC staff have advocated for and been
integral to development of the State of Colorado's TB elimination plan. At the
heart of that plan are strategies and activities to increase screening,
testing, and treatment of persons with latent TB infection, most at-risk for
progression to TB disease.

Drs. Belknap and Haas and their team have spearheaded the use of Interferon
Gamma Release Assays (IGRAs) in the Denver Metro TB Clinic to find those
infected with TB. As an urban TB clinic, DMTBC has reached out to and engaged
marginalized communities in efforts to address their perception of risk, and
engaged them in a dialogue around knowing their TB status. They have worked
hand in hand with the Denver-based Lowry Refugee Clinic in efforts to increase
completion of treatment for latent TB infection.  They have led efforts to
utilize newer short-course latent TB infection treatments, most particularly 4
months of Rifampin (4 Rif).

The DMTBC's efforts to promote and expand the use of 4Rif have been replicated
by many of the local public health agencies in Colorado. This led to these
agencies asking," If Denver Metro TB Clinic is doing it, why aren't we?" They
are known to lead by example.

DMTBC staff are currently leading efforts to create a dynamic grand rounds-
type World TB Day event in Denver that will be broadcast statewide. This event
will engage community health workers and local public health agencies in
discussions about how best to engage key communities affected by TB.  DMTBC
will collaborate with those communities on messaging that resonates about the
importance of TB infection screening, testing, and treatment by those most at-
risk for progression to TB disease. Denver Metro TB Clinic is leading
Colorado's efforts to eliminate TB.

Becky Scoggin

![Becky Scoggin](/tb/worldtbday/2017/images/BeckyScoggin.jpg)Becky Scoggin is
a Tuberculosis (TB) Nurse Coordinator for the Mississippi State Department of
Health. She works primarily in the 9 counties surrounding the City of Jackson.
Her job requires providing quality assurance and consultation for TB
management for the staff in the local clinics.  Prior to taking the role of TB
Nurse Coordinator she was a County Coordinating Nurse and TB Nurse. With
recent multiple budget cuts and staff reductions, Becky has had to take on
additional responsibilities including  providing more hands on direct patient
care and TB management in local clinics.  This includes providing Directly
Observed Therapy (DOT) to one of our patients with multidrug-resistant TB (MDR
TB).

Her major contribution last year was managing a large TB exposure
investigation at a plant. Over 900 individuals were tested at the plant, but
the investigation also covered other locations, including: a family planning
clinic, pediatric clinic, a trailer-park community, apartment complex,
hospital, medical clinic,     and interjurisdictional notifications. The
follow up identified a numbers of persons with latent TB infection who needed
treatment to prevent the progression to TB disease.  Becky worked tirelessly
to ensure that patients completed treatment, often spending 12-hour days at
the plant to reach patients on all three shifts.

Becky recently stated; "TB is not easy to learn because it can be so different
with each person. It also has to be very closely monitored because patients
can die from drug reactions or the disease. Nurses are often scared of this.
But if you are the one that stays with TB, you learn to love it. I've had a
million hugs and thank you's, and that is why I continue to do this job."
Becky is leading by example to ensure the work is done.

Page last reviewed: March 20, 2017

Content source: Division of Tuberculosis Elimination

home Tuberculosis

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Basic TB Factsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * How TB Spreads
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Latent TB Infection and TB Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Risk Factors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Exposure to TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB & HIV Coinfection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB and Diabetes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Terms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Personal Storiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Kristi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Laura
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Kelcie
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tenzin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mildred
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Shaka
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Kelly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Kim
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Emily
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jerry
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Kate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nauman
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nicole
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Thomas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Natalie
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Esteban and Danielle
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Deo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Kenni
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Rosalie and Faith
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Rick and Francene
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Santos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mabruka
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Liliana
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Martha
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tri
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Sarah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Testing & Diagnosisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Who Should be Tested
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Testing for TB Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Testing in BCG-Vaccinated Persons
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Screening and Testing of Health Care Personnel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Testing During Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Diagnosing latent TB infection and TB disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Treatmentplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Deciding When to Treat Latent TB Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Treatment Regimens for Latent TB Infection (LTBI)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Treatment for TB Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Adverse Events
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Treatment of Persons Living with HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Treatment and Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Treatment for Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Drug-Resistant TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Researchplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Epidemiologic Studies Consortiumplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Research Projects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Publications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Trials Consortiumplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Study Descriptions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Background
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Behavioral & Social Science Research
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Care Settingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Infection Control in Health Care Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Resources for TB Screening and Testing of Health Care Personnelplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * TB in Specific Populationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * African-American Communityplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Stop TB in the African-American Community Summit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Background
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Slideset
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Asian Community
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Correctional Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Homelessness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * International Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Health Disparities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Laboratory Informationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Drug Susceptibility Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * False-Positive Investigation Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Interim Laboratory Biosafety Guidance for XDR _Mycobacterium_ tuberculosis strains
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Model Performance Evaluation Program (MPEP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Rapid Molecular Testing to Detect Drug-Resistant TB in the USplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Executive Summary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Introduction
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Background on Tests for Molecular Detection of DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * General Considerations and Principles for a Molecular DR Testing Service
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Possible Scenarios and Scope of Testing for a Molecular DR Testing Service
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Research Needs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * General Recommendations of the Expert Panel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Communication Plan for the Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Recommendations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * References
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Panel Members and CDC Participants
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Appendix 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Appendix 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Appendix 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Uses of Nucleic Acid Amplification Tests for the Diagnosis of TBplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * General Considerations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * General Recommendations of the Expert Panel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Recommendations to ACET, CDC, DTBE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Data & Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Incidence in the United States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Reported TB in the US, 2018 Surveillance Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Trends in Tuberculosis 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tuberculosis in the United States, 2018 (Slide Set)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Archived Surveillance Reports and Slide Sets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2018 State and City Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Archived State and City Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Professional Resources & Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tools for Healthcare Providersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Interactive Core Curriculum on Tuberculosis: What the Clinician Should Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Resources for TB Programsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Centers of Excellence 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Publications & Productsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Patient and Public Materials
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Fact Sheetsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * General
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data & Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Drug-Resistant TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Infection Control & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB in Specific Populations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Testing & Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Vaccines & Immunizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidelinesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Contact Investigations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Control & Elimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Drug-Resistant TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Genotyping
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Infection Control & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Laboratory
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB & HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB in Specific Populations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Testing & Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Vaccines & Immunizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Guidelines by Date
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guides & Toolkitsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Aggregate Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TB Surveillance Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Core Curriculum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Effective TB Interviewing for Contact Investigation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Ethnographic Guides
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * False-Positive Investigation Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Forging Partnerships to Eliminate TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Guide to Application of Genotyping
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LTBI: A Guide for Primary Health Care Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Mantoux Tuberculin Skin Testing Products
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Report of Verified Case of Tuberculosis (RVCT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Self-Study Modules
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Contact Investigation Interviewing Skills Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB eDOT Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Understanding the TB Cohort Review Process
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Newslettersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 4, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 3, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 2, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 1, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 6, 2018Â 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 5, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 4, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 3, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 2, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 1, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 5, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 4, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 3, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 2, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 1, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 5, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 4, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 3, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 2, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 1, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Pamphlets, Brochures, Bookletsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Questions and Answers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Patient Education Series
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tuberculosis â Get the Facts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tuberculosis â The Connection between TB and HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 12-Dose Regimen for Latent TB Infection-Patient Education Brochure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Postersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Mantoux Tuberculin Skin Test Wall Chart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * World TB Day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Think TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Stop TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Reports & Articlesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Reports (MMWRs)_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * DTBE Authored Journal Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tuberculosis Laboratory Aggregate Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Slide Setsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Epidemiology of Tuberculosis Among Non-U.S.ââBorn Persons in the United States, 1993â2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Self-Study Modules on Tuberculosis, 1-5 Slide Sets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Tuberculosis (TB) in Correctional Settingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facilitator Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Introduction to TB Genotyping
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Core Curriculum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Epidemiology of Tuberculosis in Correctional Facilities, United States, 1993-2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Prevention and Control of Tuberculosis in Correctional and Detention Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Guidelines for Preventing the Transmission of M. TB in Health care Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Investigation of Contacts of Persons with Infectious TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Epidemiology of Pediatric Tuberculosis in the United States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Targeted Tuberculosis Testing and Treatment of Latent Tuberculosis Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Electronic Tools & Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Web-Based Courses & Webinarsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB 101 for Health Care Workersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB 101
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Interactive Core Curriculum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Program Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Content Syndication
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Infographicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Social Media Graphics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Customizable Take on TB Infographic with Instructions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Events
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * World TB Dayplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * U.S. TB Championsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2020 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2019 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2018 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2017 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2016 Supporting TB Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2016 Building Partnerships
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2016 Expanding Testing and Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2016 Focusing on Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2016 Maximizing Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Activities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Linksplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * State TB Control Offices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * About Usplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mission Statement and Activitiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * DTBE Strategic Plan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * National TB Program Objectives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Organization Chart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Advisory Groupsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Federal TB Task Force

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[GATS]: Global Adult Tobacco Survey
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[17 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[19 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 5:00 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 1:27 PM

