Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001524.htm    
                                Description: Premature ejaculation is when a man has an orgasm sooner during intercourse than desired.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Premature ejaculation

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001524.htm

# Premature ejaculation

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Premature ejaculation is when a man has an orgasm sooner during intercourse
than desired.

## Causes

Premature ejaculation is a common complaint.

It is thought to be caused by psychological factors or physical problems. The
condition often improves without treatment.

## Symptoms

The man ejaculates before he would like (prematurely). This may range from
before penetration to a point just after penetration. It may leave the couple
feeling unsatisfied.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider may do a physical exam and talk with you about your
sex life and medical history. Your provider also may do blood or urine tests
to rule out any physical problems.

## Treatment

Practice and relaxation can help you deal with the problem. There are helpful
techniques you can try.

The "stop and start" method:

This technique involves sexually stimulating the man until he feels like he is
about to reach orgasm. Stop the stimulation for about 30 seconds and then
start it again. Repeat this pattern until the man wants to ejaculate. The last
time, continue stimulation until the man reaches orgasm.

The "squeeze" method:

This technique involves sexually stimulating the man until he recognizes that
he is about to ejaculate. At that point, the man or his partner gently
squeezes the end of the penis (where the glans meets the shaft) for several
seconds. Stop sexual stimulation for about 30 seconds, and then start it
again. The person or couple may repeat this pattern until the man wants to
ejaculate. The last time, continue stimulation until the man reaches orgasm.

Antidepressants, such as Prozac and other selective serotonin reuptake
inhibitors (SSRIs), are often prescribed. These medicines can increase the
time it takes to reach ejaculation.

You can apply a local anesthetic cream or spray to the penis to reduce
stimulation. Decreased feeling in the penis may delay ejaculation. Condom use
also may have this effect for some men.

Other medicines used for erectile dysfunction may help. Some studies show that
using a combination of behavioral techniques and medicines may be most
effective.

Evaluation by a sex therapist, psychologist, or psychiatrist may help some
couples.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

In most cases, the man can learn how to control ejaculation. Education and
practicing simple techniques are often successful. Chronic premature
ejaculation may be a sign of anxiety or depression. A psychiatrist or
psychologist can help treat these conditions.

## Possible Complications

If a man ejaculates very early, beforeÂ entering the vagina, it may prevent a
couple from getting pregnant.

A continued lack of control over ejaculation may cause one or both partners to
feel sexually dissatisfied. It may lead to sexual tension orÂ other problemsÂ
in the relationship.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you are having a problem with premature ejaculation and
it does not get better using the methods described above.

## Prevention

There is no way to prevent this disorder.

## Images

    * ![Male reproductive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9658t.jpg)Male reproductive system

## References

Cooper K, Martyn-St. James M, Kaltenthaler E, et al. Behavioral therapies for
management of premature ejaculation: a systematic review. _Sex Med_.
2015;3(3):174-188. PMID: 26468381 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26468381.

McMahon CG. Disorders of male orgasm and ejaculation. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi
LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 29.

Shafer LC. Sexual disorders and sexual dysfunction. In: Stern TA, Fava M,
Wilens TE, Rosenbaum JF, eds. _Massachusetts General Hospital Comprehensive
Clinical Psychiatry_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 36.

## Review Date 1/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Sexual Problems in
Men](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SexualProblemsinMen_thumb.jpg)Sexual
Problems in Men _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

