Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001282.htm    
                                Description: Retrograde ejaculation occurs when semen goes backward into the bladder. Normally, it moves forward and out of the penis through the urethra during ejaculation.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Retrograde ejaculation

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001282.htm

# Retrograde ejaculation

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Retrograde ejaculation occurs when semen goes backward into the bladder.
Normally, it moves forward and out of the penis through the urethra during
ejaculation.

## Causes

Retrograde ejaculation is uncommon. It most often occurs when the opening of
the bladder (bladder neck) does not close. This causes semen to go backward
into the bladder rather than forward out of the penis.

Retrograde ejaculation may be caused by:

    * Diabetes
    * Some medicines, including drugs used to treat high blood pressure and some mood-altering drugs
    * Medicines or surgery to treat prostate or urethra problems

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

    * Cloudy urine after orgasm
    * Little or no semen is released during ejaculation 

## Exams and Tests

A urinalysis that is taken soon after ejaculation will show a large amount of
sperm in the urine.

## Treatment

Your health care provider may recommend that you stop taking any medicines
that may cause retrograde ejaculation. This can make the problem go away.

Retrograde ejaculation that is caused by diabetes or surgery may be treated
with drugs such as pseudoephedrine or imipramine.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

If the problem is caused by a medicine, normal ejaculation will often come
back after the drug is stopped. Retrograde ejaculation caused by surgery or
diabetes often can't be corrected. This is most often not a problem unless you
are trying to conceive. Some men do not like how it feels and seek treatment.
Otherwise, there is no need for treatment.

## Possible Complications

The condition may cause infertility. However, semen can often be removed from
the bladder and used during assistive reproductive techniques.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you are worried about this problem or are having trouble
conceiving a child.

## Prevention

To avoid this condition:

    * If you have diabetes, maintain good control of yourÂ blood sugar.
    * Avoid drugs that can cause this problem.

## Alternative Names

Ejaculation retrograde; Dry climax

## Patient Instructions

    * Prostate resection - minimally invasive - discharge
    * Radical prostatectomy - discharge
    * Transurethral resection of the prostate - discharge 

## Images

    * ![Male reproductive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9658t.jpg)Male reproductive system

## References

Barak S, Baker HWG. Clinical management of male infertility. In: Jameson JL,
De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_.
7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 141.

McMahon CG. Disorders of male orgasm and ejaculation. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi
LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 29.

Niederberger CS. Male infertility. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters
CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 24.

## Review Date 1/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Male
Infertility](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MaleInfertlity_thumb.jpg)Male
Infertility _Read more_

![Sexual Problems in
Men](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SexualProblemsinMen_thumb.jpg)Sexual
Problems in Men _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

