Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001169.htm    
                                Description: Partial androgen insensitivity syndrome (PAIS) is a disease that occurs in childrenÂ when their body can    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Partial androgen insensitivity syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001169.htm

# Partial androgen insensitivity syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Partial androgen insensitivity syndrome (PAIS) is a disease that occurs in
childrenÂ when their body can't respond the right way to the male sex hormones
(androgens). Testosterone is a male sex hormone.

This disorder is a type of androgen insensitivity syndrome.

## Causes

Â In the first 2 to 3 months of pregnancy, all babies have the same genitals.
As a baby grows inside the womb, male or female genitals develop depending on
the pair of sex chromosomesÂ from the parents. It also depends on the levels
of androgens. In a baby with XY chromosomes, high levels of androgens are made
in the testes. This baby will develop male genitals. In a baby with XX
chromosomes, there are no testes and the levels of androgens are very low.
This baby will develop female genitals. In PAIS, there is a change in the
geneÂ that helps the body recognize and use male hormones properly. This leads
to problems with the development of the male sex organs. At birth, the baby
may have ambiguous genitals, which leads to confusion over the baby's sex.

The syndrome is passed down through families (inherited). People with two X
chromosomes are not affected if only one copy of the X chromosome carries the
genetic mutation. Males who inherit the gene from their mothers will have the
condition. There is a 50% chance that a male child of a mother with the gene
will be affected. Every female child has a 50% chance of carrying the gene.
Family history is important in determining risk factors of PAIS.

## Symptoms

People with PAIS may have both male and female physical characteristics. These
may include:

    * Abnormal male genitals, such as the urethra being on the underside of the penis, small penis, small scrotum (with a line down the middle or incompletely closed), or undescended testicles.
    * Breast development in males at time of puberty. Decreased body hair and beard, but normal pubic and armpit hair.
    * Sexual dysfunctionÂ and infertility.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam.

Tests may include:

    * Blood tests to check levels of male and female hormones
    * Genetic tests such as karyotyping to check chromosomes
    * Sperm count
    * Testicular biopsy
    * Pelvic ultrasound to check if female reproductive organs are present

## Treatment

Infants with PAIS may be assigned a gender depending on the extent of genital
ambiguity. However, gender assignment is a complex issue and must be
considered carefully. Possible treatments for PAIS include:

    * For those assigned as males, surgery may be done to reduce breasts, repair undescended testicles, or reshape the penis. They may also receive androgens to help facial hair grow and deepen the voice.
    * For those assigned as females, surgery may be done to remove the testicles and reshape the genitals. The female hormone estrogen is then given during puberty.

## Support Groups

The following groups can provide more information on PAIS:

    * Intersex Society of North America -- www.isna.org/faq/conditions/pais
    * NIH Genetic and Rare Diseases Information Center -- rarediseases.info.nih.gov/diseases/5692/partial-androgen-insensitivity-syndrome

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Androgens are most important during early development in the womb. People with
PAIS can have a normal lifespan and be totally healthy, but they may have
difficulty conceiving a child. In the most severe cases, boys with outer
female genitals or an extremely small penis may have psychological or
emotional problems.

Children with PAIS and their parents may benefit from counseling and receiving
care from a health care team that includes different specialists.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you, your son, or a male family member has infertility
or incomplete development of male genitals. Genetic testing and counseling are
recommended if PAIS is suspected.

## Prevention

Prenatal testing is available. People with a family history ofÂ PAIS should
consider genetic counseling.

## Alternative Names

PAIS; Androgen insensitivity syndrome - partial; Incomplete testicular
feminization; Type I familial incomplete male pseudohermaphroditism; Lubs
syndrome; Reifenstein syndrome; Rosewater syndrome

## Images

    * ![Male reproductive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9658t.jpg)Male reproductive system

## References

Achermann JC, Hughes IA. Pediatric disorders of sex development. In: Melmed S,
Polonsky KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of
Endocrinology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 23.

Shnorhavorian M, Fechner PY. Disorders of sexual differentiation. In: Gleason
CA, Juul SE, eds. _Avery's Diseases of the Newborn._ 10th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 97.

## Review Date 10/15/2018

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Male
Infertility](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MaleInfertlity_thumb.jpg)Male
Infertility _Read more_

![Sexual Problems in
Men](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SexualProblemsinMen_thumb.jpg)Sexual
Problems in Men _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

