Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007695.htm    
                                Description: Delayed puberty in boys is when puberty does not begin by 14 years of age.&#10;    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Delayed puberty in boys

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007695.htm

# Delayed puberty in boys

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Delayed puberty in boys is when puberty does not begin by 14 years of age.

When puberty is delayed, these changes either don't occur or don't progress
normally. Delayed puberty is more common in boys than in girls.

## Causes

In most cases, delayed puberty is simply a matter of growth changes beginning
later than usual, sometimes called late bloomer. Once puberty begins, it
progresses normally. This is called constitutional delayed puberty, and it
runs in families. This is the most common cause of late maturity.

Delayed puberty also may occur when the testies produce too little or no
hormones. This is called hypogonadism.

This can occur when the testes are damaged or are not developing as they
should.

It can also occur if there's a problem in parts of the brain involved in
puberty.

Certain medical conditions or treatments can lead to hypogonadism:

    * Celiac sprue
    * Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD)
    * Underactive thyroid gland
    * Diabetes mellitus
    * Cystic fibrosis
    * Sickle cell disease
    * Liver and kidney disease
    * Anorexia (uncommon in boys)
    * Autoimmune diseases, such as Hashimoto thyroiditis or Addison disease
    * Chemotherapy or radiation cancer treatment
    * A tumor in the pituitary gland, Klinefelter syndrome, a genetic disorder
    * Absence of testes at birth (anorchia)
    * Injury or trauma to the testicles due to testicular torsion

## Symptoms

Boys begin puberty between ages 9 and 14 and complete it in 3.5 to 4 years.

Puberty changesÂ occur when the body starts making sex hormones. The following
changes normally begin to appear in boys between ages 9 to 14:

    * Testicles and penis get bigger
    * Hair grows on the face, chest, legs, arms, other body parts, and around the genitals
    * Height and weight increase
    * Voice gets deeper
When puberty is delayed:

    * Testicles are smaller than 1 inch by age 14
    * Penis is small and immature by age 13
    * There is very little body hair or almost none by age 15
    * Voice remains high-pitched
    * Body stays short and thin
    * Fat deposits may occur around the hips, pelvis, abdomen, and breasts

Delayed puberty may also cause stress in the child.

## Exams and Tests

Your child's health care provider will take a family history to know if
delayed puberty runs in the family. The provider will perform a physical exam.
Other exams may include:

    * Blood test to check for levels of certain growth hormones, sex hormones, and thyroid hormones
    * LH response to GnRH blood test
    * Chromosomal analysis or other genetic testing
    * MRI of head for tumors
    * Ultrasound of the pelvis or testicles

An x-ray of the left hand and wrist to evaluate bone age may be obtained at
the initial visit to see if the bones are maturing. It may be repeated over
time, if needed.

## Treatment

The treatment will depend on the cause of delayed puberty.

If there is a family history of late puberty, often no treatment is needed. In
time, puberty will begin on its own.

If delayed puberty is due to a disease, such as underactive thyroid gland,
treating it may help puberty to develop normally.

Hormone therapy may help start puberty if:

    * Puberty fails to develop
    * The child is very distressed because of the delay

The provider will give a shot (injection) of testosterone (male sex hormone)
in the muscle every 4 weeks. Growth changes will be monitored. The provider
will increase the dose slowly until puberty is reached.

## Support Groups

You may find support and understand more about your child's growth at:

The MAGIC Foundation - www.magicfoundation.org/

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Delayed puberty that runs in the family will resolve itself.

Treatment with sex hormones can trigger puberty. Hormones can also be given if
needed to improve fertility.

## Possible Complications

A low level of sex hormones may cause:

    * Erection problems (impotence)
    * Infertility
    * Low bone density and fractures later in life (osteoporosis)
    * Weakness

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your provider if:

    * Your child shows a slow growth rate
    * Puberty does not begin by 14 years of age
    * Puberty begins, but does not progress normally

## Alternative Names

Delayed sexual development - boys; Pubertal delay - boys; Hypogonadism

## References

Allan CA, McLachlan RI. Androgen deficiency disorders. In: Jameson JL, De
Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 139.

Dickinson KM. Adolescent medicine. In: The Johns Hopkins Hospital; Hughes HK,
Kahl LK, eds. _The Johns Hopkins Hospital: The Harriet Lane Handbook_. 21st
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 5.

Haddad NG, Eugster EA. Delayed puberty. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de
Kretser DM, et al. eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 122.

Styne DM, Grumbach MM. Physiology and disorders of puberty. In: Melmed S,
Polonsky KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of
Endocrinology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 25.

## Review Date 8/5/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Puberty](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Puberty2_thumb.jpg)Puberty _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

