Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001168.htm    
                                Description: Puberty is the time during which a person    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Precocious puberty

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001168.htm

# Precocious puberty

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Puberty is the time during which a person's sexual and physical
characteristics mature. Precocious puberty is when these body changes happen
earlier than normal.

## Causes

Puberty usually begins between ages 8 and 14 for girls and ages 9 and 16 for
boys.

The exact age a child enters puberty depends on a number of factors, including
family history, nutrition, and gender.

Most often there is no clear cause for precocious puberty. Some cases are due
to changes in the brain, genetic problems, or certain tumors that release
hormones. These conditions include:

    * Disorders of the testicles, ovaries, or adrenal glands
    * Tumor of the hypothalamus (hypothalamic hamartoma)
    * Tumors that release a hormone called human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) 

## Symptoms

In girls, precocious puberty is when any of the following develop before age
8:

    * Armpit or pubic hair
    * Beginning to grow faster
    * Breasts
    * First period (menstruation)
    * Mature outer genitals

In boys, precocious puberty is when any of the following develop before age 9:

    * Armpit or pubic hair
    * Growth of the testes and penis
    * Facial hair, often first on the upper lip
    * Muscle growth
    * Voice change (deepening)

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam to check for signs of
precocious puberty.

Tests that may be ordered include:

    * Blood tests to check hormone levels.
    * CT or MRI scan of the brain or of the abdomen to rule out tumors. 

## Treatment

Depending on the cause, treatment for precocious puberty may include:

    * Medicines to stop the release of sexual hormones, in order to delay further development of puberty. These medicines are given by injection or shot. They will be given until the normal age of puberty.
    * Surgery to remove a tumor.

Children with early sexual development may have psychological and social
problems. Children and adolescents want to be the same as their peers. Early
sexual development can make them appear different. Parents can support their
child by explaining the condition and how the doctor plans to treat it.
Talking to a mental health worker or counselor may also help.

## Possible Complications

Children who go through puberty too early may not reach their full height
because growth stops too early.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

See your child's provider if:

    * Your child shows signs of precocious puberty
    * Any child with early sexual development appears to be having problems in school or with peers 

## Prevention

Certain medicines that are prescribed as well as certain supplements may
contain hormones and should be avoided.

Your child should maintain a healthy weight.

## Alternative Names

Pubertas praecox

## Images

    * ![Endocrine glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1093t.jpg)Endocrine glands
    * ![Male and female reproductive systems](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9885t.jpg)Male and female reproductive systems

## References

Garibaldi LR, Chemaitilly W. Disorders of pubertal development. In: Kliegman
RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook
of Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 578.

Haddad NG, Eugster EA. Precocious puberty. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de
Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 121.

## Review Date 8/7/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Puberty](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Puberty2_thumb.jpg)Puberty _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

