Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000651.htm    
                                Description: &#10;&#10; &#10;Puberty is when your body changes and you develop from being a girl to a woman. Learn what changes to expect so that you feel more prepared.&#10;    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Puberty in girls

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000651.htm

# Puberty in girls

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Puberty is when your body changes and you develop from being a girl to a
woman. Learn what changes to expect so that you feel more prepared.

## Expect Changes With Puberty

Know that you are going through a growth spurt.

You have not grown this much since you were a baby. You might grow 2 to 4
inches (5 to 10 centimeters) in a year. When you are done going through
puberty, you will be almost as tall as you will be when you are a grown up.
Your feet may be the first to grow. They seem really big at first, but you
will grow into them.

Expect to gain weight. This is normal and needed to have healthy menstrual
cycles. You will notice that you get curvier, with bigger hips and breasts
than when you were a little girl.

## Expect Lots of Body Changes

Your body makes hormones to get puberty started. Here are some changes you
will start seeing. You will:

    * Sweat more. You may notice that your armpits smell now. Shower every day and use deodorant.
    * Start developing breasts. They start as small breast buds under your nipples. Eventually your breasts grow more, and you may want to start wearing a bra. Ask your mom or a trusted adult to take you shopping for a bra.
    * Grow body hair. You will start getting pubic hair. This is hair on and around your private parts (genitals). It starts out light and thin and gets thicker and darker as you get older. You will also grow hair in your armpits.
    * Get your period. See "menstrual periods" below.
    * Get some pimples or acne. This is caused by the hormones that start in puberty. Keep your face clean and use non-oily face cream or sunscreen. Talk to your health care provider if you are having a lot of problems with pimples. 

## Know When Puberty Happens

Most girls go through puberty somewhere between being 8 and 15 years old.
There is a wide age range when puberty starts. That is why some kids in 7th
grade still look like young children and others look really grown up.

You may wonder when you will get your period. Usually girls get their period
about 2 years after their breasts start to grow.

## Menstrual Periods

Each month, one of your ovaries releases an egg. The egg goes through the
fallopian tube into the uterus.

Each month, the uterus creates a lining of blood and tissue. If the egg is
fertilized by a sperm (this is what could happen with unprotected sex), the
egg may plant itself into this uterus lining and result in a pregnancy. If the
egg is not fertilized, it just passes through the uterus.

The uterus no longer needs the extra blood and tissue. The blood passes
through the vagina as your period. The period usually lasts 2 to 7 days and
happens about once a month.

Be prepared to get your period.

Talk to your provider about when you might start getting your period. Your
provider may be able to tell you, from other changes in your body, when you
should expect your period.

Keep supplies for your period in your backpack or purse. You will want some
pads or pantiliners. Being prepared for when you get your period keeps you
from being too worried.

Ask your mother, an older female relative, friend, or someone you trust to
help you get supplies. Pads come in all different sizes. They have a sticky
side so you can stick them on your underwear. Pantiliners are small, thin
pads.

Once you have your period, you may want to learn how to use tampons. You
insert a tampon into your vagina to absorb the blood. The tampon has a string
that you use to pull it out.

Have your mother or a trusted female friend teach you how to use tampons.
Change tampons every 4 to 8 hours.

## Be Aware of Mood Swings

You can feel really moody right before you get your period. This is caused by
hormones. You might feel:

    * Irritable.
    * Have trouble sleeping.
    * Sad.
    * Less confident about yourself. You may even have trouble figuring out what you want to wear to school. 

Luckily, feeling moody should go away once you start your period.

## Accept Changes in Your Body

Try to be comfortable with your body changing. If you are stressed about
changes, talk to your parents or a provider that you trust. Avoid dieting to
prevent normal weight gain during puberty. Dieting is really unhealthy when
you are growing.

## When to Call the Doctor

Talk to your provider if you have:

    * Worries about puberty.
    * Really long, heavy periods.
    * Irregular periods that do not seem to get regular.
    * Lots of pain and cramping with your periods.
    * Any itching or odor from your private parts. This could be a sign of a yeast infection or a sexually transmitted disease.
    * A lot of acne. You may be able to use special soap or medicine to help.

## Alternative Names

Well child - puberty in girls; Development - puberty in girls; Menstruation -
puberty in girls; Breast development - puberty in girls

## References

American Academy of Pediatrics, healthychildren.org website. Concerns girls
have about puberty. www.healthychildren.org/English/ages-
stages/gradeschool/puberty/Pages/Concerns-Girls-Have-About-Puberty.aspx.
Updated January 8, 2015. Accessed November 20, 2018

Garibaldi LR, Chemaitilly W. Physiology of puberty. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton
BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 561.

Styne DM, Grumbach MM. Physiology and disorders of puberty. In: Melmed S,
Polonsky KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of
Endocrinology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 25.

## Review Date 10/11/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Puberty

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

