Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007694.htm    
                                Description: Delayed puberty in girls occurs when breasts don    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Delayed puberty in girls

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007694.htm

# Delayed puberty in girls

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Delayed puberty in girls occurs when breasts don't develop by age 13 or
menstrual periods do not begin by age 16.

Puberty changes occur when the body starts making sex hormones. These changes
normally begin to appear in girls between ages 8 to 14 years old.

With delayed puberty, these changes either don't occur, or if they do, they
don't progress normally. Delayed puberty is more common in boys than in girls.

## Causes

In most cases of delayed puberty, growth changes just begin later than usual,
sometimes called a late bloomer. Once puberty begins, it progresses normally.
This pattern runs in families. This is the most common cause of late maturity.

Another common cause of delayed puberty in girls is lack of body fat. Being
too thin can disrupt the normal process of puberty. This can occur in girls
who:

    * Are very active in sports, such as swimmers, runners, or dancers
    * Have an eating disorder, such as anorexia or bulemia
    * Are undernourished

Delayed puberty also may occur when the ovaries produce too little or no
hormones. This is called hypogonadism.

    * This can occur when the ovaries are damaged or are not developing as they should.
    * It can also occur if there's a problem with the parts of the brain involved in puberty.

Certain medical conditions or treatments can lead to hypogonadism, including:

    * Celiac sprue
    * Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD)
    * Hypothyroidism
    * Diabetes mellitus
    * Cystic fibrosis
    * Liver and kidney disease
    * Autoimmune diseases, such as Hashimoto thyroiditis or Addison disease
    * Chemotherapy or radiation cancer treatment that damages the ovaries
    * A tumor in the pituitary gland
    * Turner syndrome, a genetic disorder

## Symptoms

Girls begin puberty between ages 8 and 15. With delayed puberty, your child
may have one or more of these symptoms:

    * Breasts do not develop by age 13
    * No pubic hair
    * Menstruation does not start by age 16
    * Short height and slower rate of growth
    * Uterus does not develop
    * Bone age is less than your child's age

There may be other symptoms, depending on what causes delayed puberty.

## Exams and Tests

Your child's health care provider will take a family history to know if
delayed puberty runs in the family.

The provider also may ask about your child's:

    * Eating habits
    * Exercise habits
    * Health history

The provider will perform a physical exam. Other exams may include:

    * Blood tests to check for levels of certain growth hormones, sex hormones, and thyroid hormones
    * LH response to GnRH blood test
    * Chromosomal analysis
    * MRI of head for tumors
    * Ultrasound of ovaries and uterus

An x-ray of the left hand and wrist to evaluate bone age may be obtained at
the initial visit to see if the bones are maturing. It may be repeated over
time, if needed.

## Treatment

The treatment will depend on the cause of delayed puberty.

If there is a family history of late puberty, often no treatment is needed. In
time, puberty will begin on its own.

In girls with too little body fat, gaining a bit of weight may help trigger
puberty.

If delayed puberty is caused by a disease or an eating disorder, treating the
cause may help puberty to develop normally.

If puberty fails to develop, or the child is very distressed because of the
delay, hormone therapy can help start puberty. The provider will:

    * Give estrogen (a sex hormone) at very low doses, either orally or as a patch
    * Monitor growth changes and increase the dose every 6 to 12 months
    * Add progesterone (a sex hormone) to start menstruation
    * Give oral contraceptive pills to maintain normal levels of sex hormones

## Support Groups

These resources can help you find support and understand more about your
child's growth:

The MAGIC Foundation -- www.magicfoundation.org

Turner Syndrome Society of the United States -- www.turnersyndrome.org

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Delayed puberty that runs in the family will resolve itself.

Some girls with certain conditions, such as those with damage to their
ovaries, may need to take hormones their entire lives.

## Possible Complications

The estrogen replacement therapy may have side effects.

Other possible complications include:

    * Early menopause
    * Infertility
    * Low bone density and fractures later in life (osteoporosis)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your provider if:

    * Your child shows a slow growth rate
    * Puberty does not begin by 13 years of age
    * Puberty begins, but does not progress normally

## Alternative Names

Delayed sexual development - girls; Pubertal delay - girls; Constitutional
delayed puberty

## References

Dickinson KM. Adolescent medicine. In: The Johns Hopkins Hospital; Hughes HK,
Kahl LK, eds. _The Johns Hopkins Hospital: The Harriet Lane Handbook_. 21st
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 5.

Haddad NG, Eugster EA. Delayed puberty. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de
Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 122.

Styne DM, Grumbach MM. Physiology and disorders of puberty. In: Melmed S,
Polonsky KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of
Endocrinology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 25.

## Review Date 8/5/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Puberty](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Puberty2_thumb.jpg)Puberty _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

