Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003352.htm    
                                Description: Serum herpes simplex antibodies is a blood test that looks for antibodies to the herpes simplex virus (HSV), including HSV-1 and HSV-2. HSV-1 most often causes cold sores (oral herpes). HSV-2 causes genital    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Serum herpes simplex antibodies

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003352.htm

# Serum herpes simplex antibodies

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Serum herpes simplex antibodies is a blood test that looks for antibodies to
the herpes simplex virus (HSV), including HSV-1 and HSV-2. HSV-1 most often
causes cold sores (oral herpes). HSV-2 causes genital herpes.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

The sample is taken to the lab and tested for the presence and amount of
antibodies.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special steps are needed to prepare for this test.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel a little pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging sensation. Afterward, there may be some
throbbing.

## Why the Test is Performed

The test is done to find out whether a person has ever been infected with oral
or genital herpes. It looks for antibodies to herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1)
and herpes simplex virus 2 (HSV-2). An antibody is a substance made by the
body's immune system when it detects harmful substances such as the herpes
virus. This test does not detect the virus itself.

## Normal Results

A negative (normal) test most often means you have not been infected with
HSV-1 or HSV-2.

If the infection occurred very recently (within a few weeks to 3 months), the
test may be negative, but you may still be infected. This is called a false
negative. It can take up to 3 months after a possible herpes exposure for this
test to be positive.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your doctor
about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A positive test means you have been infected with HSV recently or at some
point in the past.

Tests can be done to help determine if you have a recent infection.

About 70% of adults have been infected by HSV-1 and have antibodies against
the virus. About 20 to 50% of adults will have antibodies against the HSV-2
virus, which causes genital herpes.

HSV stays in your system once you have been infected. It may be "asleep"
(dormant), and cause no symptoms, or it may flare up and cause symptoms. This
test cannot tell whether you are having a flare-up.

## Risks

Risks associated with having blood drawn are slight but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

## Considerations

Even when you do not have sores, you can pass (shed) the virus to someone
during sexual or other close contact. To protect others:

    * Let any sexual partner know that you have herpes before having sex. Allow him or her to decide what to do. If you both agree to have sex, use latex or polyurethane condoms. 
    * DO NOT have vaginal, anal, or oral sex when you have sores on or near the genitals, anus, or mouth. 
    * DO NOT kiss or have oral sex when you have a sore on the lips or inside the mouth. 
    * DO NOT share your towels, toothbrush, or lipstick. Make sure dishes and utensils you use are washed well with detergent before others use them. 
    * Wash your hands well with soap and water after touching a sore. 

## Alternative Names

Herpes serology; HSV blood test

## Images

    * ![Herpes biopsy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9880t.jpg)Herpes biopsy

## References

Khan R. Women. In: Glynn M, Drake WM, eds. _Hutchison's Clinical Methods_.
24th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 5.

Schiffer JT, Corey L. Herpes simplex virus. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser
MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 135.

Whitley RJ, Gnann JW. Herpes simplex virus infections. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2020:chap 350.

Workowski KA, Bolan GA; Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Sexually
transmitted diseases treatment guidelines, 2015. _MMWR Recomm Rep_.
2015;64(RR-03):1-137. PMID: 26042815 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26042815.

## Review Date 6/30/2019

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Genital
Herpes](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GenitalHerpes_thumb.jpg)Genital Herpes
_Read more_

![Herpes
Simplex](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HerpesSimplex_thumb.jpg)Herpes Simplex
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

