Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000646.htm    
                                Description: Esophagitis is a general term for any inflammation, irritation, or swelling of the esophagus. This is the tube that carries food and liquids from the mouth to the stomach.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Infectious esophagitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000646.htm

# Infectious esophagitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Esophagitis is a general term for any inflammation, irritation, or swelling of
the esophagus. This is the tube that carries food and liquids from the mouth
to the stomach.

## Causes

Infectious esophagitis is rare. It often occurs in people whose immune systems
are weakened. People who have strong immune systems don't usually develop the
infection.

Common causes of a weakened immune system include:

    * HIV/AIDS
    * Chemotherapy
    * Diabetes
    * Leukemia or lymphoma
    * Medicines that suppress the immune system, such as ones given after organ or bone marrow transplant
    * Other conditions that suppress or weaken your immune system 

Organisms (germs) that cause esophagitis include fungi, yeast, and viruses.
Common organisms include:

    *  _Candida albicans_ and other Candida species
    * Cytomegalovirus (CMV)
    * Herpes simplex virus (HSV)
    * Human papillomavirus (HPV)
    * Tuberculosis bacteria ( _Mycobacterium tuberculosis_ ) 

## Symptoms

Symptoms of esophagitis include:

    * Difficulty swallowing and painful swallowing
    * Fever and chills
    * Yeast infection of the tongue and lining of the mouth (oral thrush)
    * Sores in the mouth or back of the throat (with herpes or CMV) 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will ask about your symptoms and examine your mouth
and throat. Tests may include:

    * Blood and urine tests for CMV
    * Culture of cells from the esophagus for herpes or CMV
    * Mouth or throat swab culture for candida

You may need to have an upper endoscopy exam. This is a test to examine the
lining of the esophagus.

## Treatment

In most people with esophagitis, medicines can control the infection. These
include:

    * Antiviral medicines such as acyclovir, famciclovir, or valacyclovir can treat a herpes infection.
    * Antifungal medicines such as fluconazole (taken by mouth), caspofungin (given by injection), or amphotericin (given by injection) can treat candida infection.
    * Antiviral medicines that are given through a vein (intravenously), such as ganciclovir or foscarnet can treat CMV infection. In some cases, a medicine called valganciclovir, which is taken by mouth, can be used for CMV infection.

Some people may also need pain medicine.

Ask your provider for special diet recommendations. For example, there may be
foods you need to avoid eating as your esophagitis heals.

Many people who are treated for an episode of infectious esophagitis need
other, long-term medicines to suppress the virus or fungus, and to prevent the
infection from coming back.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Esophagitis can usually be treated effectively and usually heals in 3 to 5
days. People with a weakened immune system may take longer to get better.

## Possible Complications

Health problems that may result from infectious esophagitis include:

    * Holes in your esophagus (perforations)
    * Infection at other sites
    * Recurrent infection

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have any condition that can cause reduced immune
response and you develop symptoms of infectious esophagitis.

## Prevention

If you have a weakened immune system, try to avoid contact with people who
have an infection with any of the organisms mentioned above.

## Alternative Names

Infection - esophagus; Esophageal infection

## Images

    * ![Herpetic esophagitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17219t.jpg)Herpetic esophagitis
    * ![Upper gastrointestinal system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9305t.jpg)Upper gastrointestinal system
    * ![CMV esophagitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17113t.jpg)CMV esophagitis
    * ![Candidal esophagitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17171t.jpg)Candidal esophagitis

## References

Graman PS. Esophagitis. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell,
Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases_. 9th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 97.

Katzka DA. Esophageal disorders caused by medications, trauma, and infection.
In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's
Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 46.

## Review Date 8/25/2019

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Esophagus](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EsopagusDisordersandEsophagealCancer_thumb.jpg)Esophagus
Disorders _Read more_

![Herpes
Simplex](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HerpesSimplex_thumb.jpg)Herpes Simplex
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

