Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000851.htm    
                                Description: Erythema multiforme (EM) is an acute skin reaction that comes from an infection or another trigger. EM is a self-limiting disease. This means it usually resolves on its own without treatment.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Erythema multiforme

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000851.htm

# Erythema multiforme

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Erythema multiforme (EM) is an acute skin reaction that comes from an
infection or another trigger. EM is a self-limiting disease. This means it
usually resolves on its own without treatment.

## Causes

EM is a type of allergic reaction. In most cases, it occurs in response to an
infection. In rare cases, it is caused by certain medicines or body-wide
(systemic) illness.

Infections that may lead to EM include:

    * Viruses, such as herpes simplex that cause cold sores and genital herpes (most common)
    * Bacteria, such as _Mycoplasma pneumoniae_ that cause lung infection
    * Funguses, such as _Histoplasma capsulatum_ , that cause histoplasmosis

Medicines that may cause EM include:

    * NSAIDs
    * Allopurinol (treats gout)
    * Certain antibiotics, such as sulfonamides and aminopenicillins
    * Anti-seizure medicines

Systemic illnesses that are associated with EM include:

    * Inflammatory bowel disease, such as Crohn disease
    * Systemic lupus erythematosus

EM occurs mostly in adults 20 to 40 years old. People with EM may have family
members who have had EM as well.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of EM include:

    * Low-grade fever
    * Headache
    * Sore throat
    * Cough
    * Runny nose
    * General ill feeling
    * Itchy skin
    * Joint aches
    * ManyÂ skin lesions (sores or abnormal areas)Â 

Skin sores may:

    * Start quickly
    * Come back
    * Spread
    * Be raised or discolored
    * Look like hives
    * Have a central sore surrounded by pale red rings, also called a target, iris, or bulls-eye
    * Have liquid-filled bumps or blisters of various sizes
    * Be located on the upper body, legs, arms, palms, hands, or feet
    * Include the face or lips
    * Appear evenly on both sides of the body (symmetrical) 

Other symptoms may include:

    * Bloodshot eyes
    * Dry eyes
    * Eye burning, itching, and discharge
    * Eye pain
    * Mouth sores
    * Vision problems 

There are two forms of EM:

    * EM minor usually involves the skin and sometimes mouth sores.
    * EM major often starts with a fever and joint aches. Besides the skin sores and mouth sores, there may be sores in the eyes, genitals, lung airways, or gut. 

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will look at your skin to diagnose EM. You'll be
asked about your medical history, such as recent infections or medicines
you've taken.

Tests may include:

    * Skin lesion biopsy
    * Examination of skin tissue under a microscope

## Treatment

EM usually goes away on its own with or without treatment.

Your provider will have you stop taking any medicines that may be causing the
problem. But, don't stop taking medicines on your own without talking to your
provider first.

Treatment may include:

    * Medicines, such as antihistamines, to control itching
    * Moist compresses applied to the skin
    * Pain medicines to reduce fever and discomfort
    * Mouthwashes to ease discomfort of mouth sores that interferes with eating and drinking
    * Antibiotics for skin infections
    * Corticosteroids to control inflammation
    * Medicines for eye symptoms

Good hygiene may help prevent secondary infections (infections that occur from
treating the first infection).

Use of sunscreen, protective clothing, and avoiding excessive exposure to sun
may prevent the recurrence of EM.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Mild forms of EM usually get better in 2 to 6 weeks, but the problem may
return.

## Possible Complications

Complications of EM may include:

    * Patchy skin color
    * Return of EM, especially with HSV infection

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider right away if you have symptoms of EM.

## Alternative Names

EM; Erythema multiforme minor; Erythema multiforme major; Erythema multiforme
minor - erythema multiforme von Hebra; Acute bullous disorder - erythema
multiforme; Herpes simplex - erythema multiforme

## Images

    * ![Erythema multiforme on the hands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1556t.jpg)Erythema multiforme on the hands
    * ![Erythema multiforme, circular lesions - hands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1837t.jpg)Erythema multiforme, circular lesions - hands
    * ![Erythema multiforme, target lesions on the palm](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1856t.jpg)Erythema multiforme, target lesions on the palm
    * ![Erythema multiforme on the leg](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2413t.jpg)Erythema multiforme on the leg
    * ![Erythema multiforme on the hand](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2414t.jpg)Erythema multiforme on the hand
    * ![Exfoliation following erythroderma](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2419t.jpg)Exfoliation following erythroderma

## References

Holland KE, Soung PJ. Acquired rashes in the older child. In: Kleigman RM, Lye
PS, Bordini BJ, Toth H, Basel D, eds. _Nelson Pediatric Symptom-Based
Diagnosis_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 48.

Rubenstein JB, Spektor T. Conjunctivitis: infectious and noninfectious. In:
Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds. _Ophthalmology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 4.6.

Shah KN. Urticaria and erythema multiforme. In: Long SS, Prober CG, Fischer M,
eds. _Principles and Practice of Pediatric Infectious Diseases._ 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 72.

## Review Date 10/14/2018

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Allergy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Allergy_thumb.jpg)Allergy _Read
more_

![Drug Reactions](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DrugReactions_thumb.jpg)Drug
Reactions _Read more_

![Herpes
Simplex](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HerpesSimplex_thumb.jpg)Herpes Simplex
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

