Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003739.htm    
                                Description: Herpes viral culture of a lesion is a laboratory test to check if a skin sore is infected with the herpes virus.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Herpes viral culture of lesion

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003739.htm

# Herpes viral culture of lesion

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Herpes viral culture of a lesion is a laboratory test to check if a skin sore
is infected with the herpes virus.

## How the Test is Performed

The health care provider collects the sample from a skin sore (lesion). This
is done usually by rubbing a small cotton swab and on the skin lesion. The
sample is sent to a lab. There, it is placed in a special dish (culture). It
is then watched to see if the herpes simplex virus (HSV), herpes zoster virus,
or substances related to the virus grow. Special tests may also be done to
determine whether it is HSV type 1 or 2.

## How to Prepare for the Test

The sample must be collected during the acute phase of infection. This is the
worst part of an outbreak. It is also when the skin lesions are at their
worst.

## How the Test will Feel

When the sample is collected, you may feel an uncomfortable scraping or sticky
sensation. Sometimes a sample from the throat or eyes is needed. This involves
rubbing a sterile swab against the eye or in the throat.

## Why the Test is Performed

The test is done to confirm herpes infection. Herpes simplex virus causes
genital herpes. It can also cause cold sores of the mouth and lips. Herpes
zoster causes chickenpox and shingles.

The diagnosis is often made by physical examination (the provider looking at
the sores). The cultures and other tests are used to confirm the diagnosis.

This test is most likely accurate when a person is newly infected, that is,
during the first outbreak.

## Normal Results

A normal (negative) result means that the herpes simplex virus did not grow in
the laboratory dish and the skin sample used in the test did not contain any
herpes virus.

Be aware that a normal (negative) culture does not always mean that you do not
have a herpes infection or have not had one in the past.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An abnormal (positive) result may mean that you have an active infection with
herpes simplex virus. Herpes infections include genital herpes, cold sores on
the lips or in the mouth, or shingles. More blood tests will likely be needed
to confirm the diagnosis or the exact cause.

If the culture is positive for herpes, you may have recently become infected.
You may have become infected in the past and are currently having an outbreak.

## Risks

Risks include slight bleeding or discomfort in the area where the skin was
swabbed.

## Alternative Names

Culture - herpes simplex virus; Herpes simplex virus culture; Herpes zoster
virus culture

## Images

    * ![Viral lesion culture](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10027t.jpg)Viral lesion culture

## References

Beavis KG, Charnot-Katsikas A. Specimen collection and handling for diagnosis
of infectious diseases. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical
Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 64.

Marks JG, Miller JJ. Dermatologic therapy and procedures. In: Marks JG, Miller
JJ, eds. _Lookingbill and Marks' Principles of Dermatology_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 4.

Whitley RJ, Gnann JW. Herpes simplex virus infections. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2020:chap 350.

## Review Date 6/30/2019

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Genital
Herpes](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GenitalHerpes_thumb.jpg)Genital Herpes
_Read more_

![Herpes
Simplex](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HerpesSimplex_thumb.jpg)Herpes Simplex
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

