Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001368.htm    
                                Description: Newborn infants can become infected with herpes virus during pregnancy, during labor or delivery, or after birth.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pregnancy and herpes

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001368.htm

# Pregnancy and herpes

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Newborn infants can become infected with herpes virus during pregnancy, during
labor or delivery, or after birth.

## Causes

Newborn infants can become infected with herpes virus:

    * In the uterus (this is unusual)
    * Passing through the birth canal (birth-acquired herpes, the most common method of infection)
    * Right after birth (postpartum) from being kissed or having other contact with someone who has herpes mouth sores

If the mother has an active outbreak of genital herpes at the time of
delivery, the baby is more likely to become infected during birth. Some
mothers may not know they have herpes sores inside the vagina.

Some women have had herpes infections in the past, but are not aware of it,
and may pass the virus to their baby.

Herpes type 2 (genital herpes) is the most common cause of herpes infection in
newborn babies. But herpes type 1 (oral herpes) can also occur.

## Symptoms

Herpes may only appear as a skin infection. Small, fluid-filled blisters
(vesicles) may appear. These blisters break, crust over, and finally heal. A
mild scar may remain.

Herpes infection may also spread throughout the body. This is called
disseminated herpes. In this type, the herpes virus can affect many parts of
the body.

    * Herpes infection in the brain is called herpes encephalitis
    * The liver, lungs, and kidneys may also be involved
    * There may or may not be blisters on the skin 

Newborn infants with herpes that has spread to the brain or other parts of the
body are often very sick. Symptoms include:

    * Skin sores, fluid-filled blisters
    * Bleeding easily
    * Breathing difficulties such as rapid breathing and short periods without breathing, which can lead to nostril flaring, grunting, or blue appearance
    * Yellow skin and whites of the eyes
    * Weakness
    * Low body temperature (hypothermia)
    * Poor feeding
    * Seizures, shock, orÂ coma

Herpes that is caught shortly after birth has symptoms similar to those of
birth-acquired herpes.

Herpes the baby gets in the uterus can cause:

    * Eye disease, such as inflammation of the retina (chorioretinitis)
    * Severe brain damage
    * Skin sores (lesions) 

## Exams and Tests

Tests for birth-acquired herpes include:

    * Checking for the virus by scraping from vesicle or vesicle culture
    * EEG
    * MRI of the head
    * Spinal fluid culture

Additional tests that may be done if the baby is very sick include:

    * Blood gas analysis
    * Coagulation studies (PT, PTT)
    * Complete blood count
    * Electrolyte measurements
    * Tests of liver function 

## Treatment

It is important to tell your health care provider at your first prenatal visit
if you have a history of genital herpes.

    * If you have frequent herpes outbreaks, you'll be given a medicine to take during the last month of pregnancy to treat the virus. This helps prevent an outbreak at the time of delivery.
    * C-section is recommended for pregnant women who have a new herpes sore and are in labor.

Herpes virus infection in infants is generally treated with antiviral medicine
given through a vein (intravenous). The baby may need to be on the medicine
for several weeks.

Treatment may also be needed for the effects of herpes infection, such as
shock or seizures. Because these babies are very ill, treatment is often done
in the hospital intensive care unit.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Infants with systemic herpes or encephalitis often do poorly. This is despite
antiviral medicines and early treatment.

In infants with skin disease, the vesicles may keep coming back, even after
treatment is finished.

Affected children may have developmental delay and learning disabilities.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

If your baby has any symptoms of birth-acquired herpes, including skin
blisters with no other symptoms, have the baby seen by the provider right
away.

## Prevention

Safer sexual practices can help prevent the mother from getting genital
herpes.

People with cold sores (herpes labialis) should not come in contact with
newborn infants. To prevent transmitting the virus, caregivers who have a cold
sore should wear a mask and wash their hands carefully before coming in
contact with an infant.

Mothers should speak to their providers about the best way to minimize the
risk of transmitting herpes to their infant.

## Alternative Names

HSV; Congenital herpes; Herpes - congenital; Birth-acquired herpes; Herpes
during pregnancy

## Images

    * ![Congenital herpes](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17145t.jpg)Congenital herpes

## References

Kimberlin DW, Baley J; Committee on infectious diseases; Committee on fetus
and newborn. Guidance on management of asymptomatic neonates born to women
with active genital herpes lesions. _Pediatrics_. 2013;131(2):e635-e646. PMID:
23359576 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23359576.

Kimberlin DW, Gutierrez KM. Herpes simplex virus infections. In: Wilson CB,
Nizet V, Maldonado YA, Remington JS, Klein JO, eds. _Remington and Klein's
Infectious Diseases of the Fetus and Newborn Infant_. 8th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 27.

## Review Date 6/28/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Herpes
Simplex](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HerpesSimplex_thumb.jpg)Herpes Simplex
_Read more_

![Infections and
Pregnancy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/InfectionsandPregnancy_thumb.jpg)Infections
and Pregnancy _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

