Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/herpes-hsv-test/    
                                Description: HSV stands for herpes simplex virus. A herpes (HSV) test checks to see if you have been infected with the virus. There are two main types of HSV: HSV-1, which causes most oral herpes, and HSV-2, which causes most genital herpes. Most HSV infections are not serious. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Herpes (HSV) Test

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/herpes-hsv-test/

# Herpes (HSV) Test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a herpes (HSV) test?

Herpes is a skin infection caused by the herpes simplex virus, known as HSV.
HSV causes painful blisters or sores in different parts of the body. There are
two main types of HSV:

    *  **HSV-1,** which usually causes blisters or cold sores around the mouth (oral herpes)
    *  **HSV-2,** which usually causes blisters or sores in the genital area (genital herpes)

Herpes is spread through direct contact with sores. HSV-2 is usually spread
through vaginal, oral, or anal sex. Sometimes herpes can be spread even if
there are no visible sores.

Both HSV-1 and HSV-2 are recurring infections. That means after your first
outbreak of sores clears up, you may get another outbreak in the future. But
the severity and number of outbreaks tend to lessen over time. Although oral
and genital herpes can be uncomfortable, the viruses usually don't cause any
major health problems.

In rare cases, HSV can infect other parts of the body, including the brain and
spinal cord. These infections can be very serious. Herpes can also be
dangerous to a newborn baby. A mother with herpes can pass the infection to
her baby during delivery. A herpes infection can be life threatening to a
baby.

An HSV test looks for the presence of the virus in your body. While there is
no cure for herpes, there are medicines that can help manage the condition.

Other names: herpes culture, herpes simplex viral culture, HSV-1 antibodies,
HSV-2 antibodies, HSV DNA

## What is it used for?

An HSV test may be used to:

    * Find out whether sores on the mouth or genitals are caused by HSV
    * Diagnose an HSV infection in a pregnant woman
    * Find out if a newborn is infected with HSV

## Why do I need an HSV test?

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) does not recommend HSV
testing for people without symptoms of HSV. But you may need an HSV test if:

    * You have symptoms of herpes, such as blisters or sores on the genitals or other part of the body
    * Your sex partner has herpes
    * You are pregnant and you or your partner has had a previous herpes infection or symptoms of genital herpes. If you test positive for HSV, your baby may need testing as well.

HSV-2 may increase your risk of HIV and other sexually transmitted diseases
(STDs). You may need a test if you have certain risk factors for STDs. You may
be at higher risk if you:

    * Have multiple sex partners
    * Are a man who has sex with men
    * Have a partner with HIV and/or another STD

In rare cases, HSV can cause encephalitis or meningitis, life-threatening
infections of the brain and spinal cord. You may need an HSV test if you have
symptoms of a brain or spinal cord disorder. These include:

    * Fever
    * Stiff neck
    * Confusion
    * Severe headache
    * Sensitivity to light

## What happens during an HSV test?

HSV testing is usually done as a swab test, blood test, or lumbar puncture.
The type of test you get will depend on your symptoms and health history.

    *  **For a swab test,** a health care provider will use a swab to collect fluid and cells from a herpes sore.
    *  **For a blood test,** a health care professional will take a blood sample from a vein in your arm, using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a small amount of blood will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel a little sting when the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than five minutes.
    *  **A lumbar puncture,** also called a spinal tap, is only done if your provider thinks you may have an infection of the brain or spinal cord. During a spinal tap:
      * You will lie on your side or sit on an exam table.
      * A health care provider will clean your back and inject an anesthetic into your skin, so you won't feel pain during the procedure. Your provider may put a numbing cream on your back before this injection.
      * Once the area on your back is completely numb, your provider will insert a thin, hollow needle between two vertebrae in your lower spine. Vertebrae are the small backbones that make up your spine.
      * Your provider will withdraw a small amount of cerebrospinal fluid for testing. This will take about five minutes.
      * Your provider may ask you to lie on your back for an hour or two after the procedure. This may prevent you from getting a headache afterward.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You don't need any special preparations for a swab test or a blood test. For a
lumbar puncture, you may be asked to empty your bladder and bowels before the
test.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is no known risk to having a swab test.

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

If you had a lumbar puncture, you may have pain or tenderness in your back
where the needle was inserted. You may also get a headache after the
procedure.

## What do the results mean?

Your HSV test results will be given as negative, also called normal, or
positive, also called abnormal.

 **Negative/Normal.** The herpes virus was not found. You may still have an
HSV infection if your results were normal. It may mean the sample didn't have
enough of the virus to be detected. If you still have symptoms of herpes, you
may need to get tested again.

 **Positive/Abnormal.** HSV was found in your sample. It may mean you have an
active infection (you currently have sores), or were infected in the past (you
have no sores).

If you tested positive for HSV, talk to your health care provider. While there
is no cure for herpes, it hardly ever causes serious health problems. Some
people may only have one outbreak of sores their whole lives, while others
break out more often. If you want to reduce the severity and number of your
outbreaks, your provider may prescribe a medicine that can help.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about an HSV test?

The best way to prevent genital herpes or another STD is to not have sex. If
you are sexually active, you can reduce your risk of infection by

    * Being in a long-term relationship with one partner who has tested negative for STDs
    * Using condoms correctly every time you have sex

If you've been diagnosed with genital herpes, condom use can reduce your risk
of spreading the infection to others.

## References

    1. ACOG: Women's Healthcare Physicians [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists; c2017. Genital Herpes [cited 2018 Jun 13]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.acog.org/Patients/FAQs/Genital-Herpes
    2. Allina Health [Internet]. Minneapolis: Allina Health; Herpes viral culture of lesion [cited 2018 Jun 13]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://wellness.allinahealth.org/library/content/1/3739
    3. American Pregnancy Association [Internet]. Irving (TX): American Pregnancy Association; c2018. Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs) and Pregnancy [cited 2018 Jun 13]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: Â http://americanpregnancy.org/pregnancy-complications/stds-and-pregnancy
    4. American Sexual Health Association [Internet]. Triangle Park (NC): American Sexual Health Association; c2018. Herpes Fast Facts [cited 2018 Jun 13]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: http://www.ashasexualhealth.org/stdsstis/herpes/fast-facts-and-faqs
    5. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Genital Herpes-CDC Fact Sheet [updated 2017 Sep 1; cited 2018 Jun 13]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/std/herpes/stdfact-herpes.htm
    6. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Genital Herpes Screening FAQ [updated 2017 Feb 9; cited 2018 Jun 13]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/std/herpes/screening.htm
    7. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. Herpes Testing [updated 2018 Jun 13; cited 2018 Jun 13]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/herpes-testing
    8. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2018. Genital Herpes: Diagnosis and Treatment; 2017 Oct 3 [cited 2018 Jun 13]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/genital-herpes/diagnosis-treatment/drc-20356167
    9. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2018. Genital Herpes: Symptoms and Causes; 2017 Oct 3 [cited 2018 Jun 13]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/genital-herpes/symptoms-causes/syc-20356161
    10. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co. Inc.; c2018. Herpes Simplex Virus Infections [cited 2018 Jun 13]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.merckmanuals.com/home/infections/viral-infections/herpes-simplex-virus-infections
    11. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co. Inc.; c2018. Tests for Brain, Spinal Cord, and Nerve Disorders [cited 2018 Jun 13]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: http://www.merckmanuals.com/home/brain,-spinal-cord,-and-nerve-disorders/diagnosis-of-brain,-spinal-cord,-and-nerve-disorders/tests-for-brain,-spinal-cord,-and-nerve-disorders
    12. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Blood Tests [cited 2018 Jun 13]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    13. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. University of Florida; c2018. Genital herpes: Overview [updated 2018 Jun 13; cited 2018 Jun 13]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/genital-herpes
    14. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. University of Florida; c2018. Herpes: oral: Overview [updated 2018 Jun 13; cited 2018 Jun 13]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/herpes-oral
    15. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2018. Health Encyclopedia: Herpes Simplex Virus Antibody [cited 2018 Jun 13]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid=herpes_simplex_antibody
    16. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2018. Health Encyclopedia: HSV DNA (CSF) [cited 2018 Jun 13]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid=hsv_dna_csf
    17. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Health Information: Genital Herpes: Topic Overview [updated 2017 Mar 20; cited 2018 Jun 13]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/major/genital-herpes/hw270613.html
    18. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Health Information: Herpes Tests: How It is Done [updated 2017 Mar 20; cited 2018 Jun 13]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/herpes-tests/hw264763.html#hw264785
    19. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Health Information: Herpes Tests: Results [updated 2017 Mar 20; cited 2018 Jun 13]; [about 8 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/herpes-tests/hw264763.html#hw264791
    20. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Health Information: Herpes Tests: Test Overview [updated 2017 Mar 20; cited 2018 Jun 13]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/herpes-tests/hw264763.html
    21. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Health Information: Herpes Tests: Why It is Done [updated 2017 Mar 20; cited 2018 Jun 13]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/herpes-tests/hw264763.html#hw264780

## Related Health Topics

    * Blisters
    * Chickenpox
    * Cold Sores
    * Encephalitis
    * Genital Herpes
    * Herpes Simplex
    * Infectious Mononucleosis
    * Meningitis
    * Sexually Transmitted Diseases
    * Shingles

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Cerebrospinal Fluid (CSF) Analysis
    * HIV Screening Test
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 25 February 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

