Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001953.htm    
                                Description: Orgasmic dysfunction is when a woman either cannot reach orgasm, or has trouble reaching orgasm when she is sexually excited.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Orgasmic dysfunction in women

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001953.htm

# Orgasmic dysfunction in women

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Orgasmic dysfunction is when a woman either cannot reach orgasm, or has
trouble reaching orgasm when she is sexually excited.

When sex is not enjoyable, it can become a chore instead of a satisfying,
intimate experience for both partners. Sexual desire may decline, and sex may
occur less often. This can create resentment and conflict in the relationship.

## Causes

About 10% to 15% of women have never had an orgasm. Surveys suggest that up to
one half of women are not satisfied with how often they reach orgasm.

Sexual response involves the mind and body working together in a complex way.
Both need to function well for an orgasm to happen.

Many factors can lead to problems reaching orgasm. They include:

    * A history of sexual abuse or rape
    * Boredom in sexual activity or a relationship
    * Fatigue and stress or depression
    * Lack of knowledge about sexual function
    * Negative feelings about sex (often learned in childhood or teen years)
    * Shyness or embarrassment about asking for the type of touching off that works best

Health problems that can cause problems reaching orgasm include:

    * Certain drugs that are prescribed. The most common drugs used to treat depression may cause this problem. These include fluoxetine (Prozac), paroxetine (Paxil), and sertraline (Zoloft).
    * Hormonal disorders or changes, such as menopause.
    * Chronic illnesses that affect health and sexual interest.
    * Chronic pelvic pain, such as from endometriosis.
    * Damage to the nerves that supply the pelvis due to conditions such as multiple sclerosis, diabetic nerve damage, and spinal cord injury.
    * Spasm of the muscles surrounding the vagina that occurs against your will.
    * Vaginal dryness.

## Symptoms

The symptoms of orgasmic dysfunction include:

    * Being unable to reach orgasm
    * Taking longer than you want to reach orgasm
    * Having only unsatisfying orgasms

## Exams and Tests

A complete medical history and physical exam needs to be done, but results are
almost always normal. If the problem began after starting a medicine, tell the
health care provider who prescribed the drug. A qualified specialist in sex
therapy may be helpful.

## Treatment

Important goals when treating problems with orgasms are:

    * A healthy attitude toward sex, and education about sexual stimulation and response
    * Learning to clearly communicate sexual needs and desires, verbally or non-verbally 

How to make sex better:

    * Get plenty of rest and eat well. Limit alcohol, drugs, and smoking. Feel your best. This helps with feeling better about sex.
    * Do Kegel exercises. Tighten and relax the pelvic muscles.
    * Focus on other sexual activities, not just intercourse.
    * Use birth control that works for both you and your partner. Discuss this ahead of time so you aren't worried about an unwanted pregnancy.
    * If other sexual problems, such as lack of interest and pain during intercourse, are happening at the same time, these need to be addressed as part of the treatment plan. 

Discuss the following with your provider:

    * Medical problems, such as diabetes or multiple sclerosis
    * New medicines
    * Menopausal symptoms 

The role of taking female hormone supplements in treating orgasmic dysfunction
is unproven and the long-term risks remain unclear.

Treatment can involve education and learning to reach orgasm by focusing on
pleasurable stimulation and directed masturbation.

    * Most women require clitoral stimulation to reach an orgasm. Including clitoral stimulation in sexual activity may be all that is necessary.
    * If this does not solve the problem, then teaching the woman to masturbate may help her understand what she needs to become sexually excited.
    * Use of a mechanical device, such as a vibrator, may be helpful to achieve orgasm with masturbation. 

Treatment may include sexual counseling to learn series of couples' exercises
to:

    * Learn and practice communication
    * Learn more effective stimulation and playfulness 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Women do better when treatment involves learning sexual techniques or a method
called desensitization. This treatment gradually works to decrease the
response that causes lack of orgasms. Desensitization is helpful for women
with significant sexual anxiety.

## Alternative Names

Inhibited sexual excitement; Sex - orgasmic dysfunction; Anorgasmia; Sexual
dysfunction - orgasmic; Sexual problem - orgasmic

## References

Biggs WS, Chaganaboyana S. Human sexuality. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP, eds.
_Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 42.

Cowley DS, Lentz GM. Emotional aspects of gynecology: depression, anxiety,
post-traumatic stress disorder, eating disorders, substance use disorders,
"difficult" patients, sexual function, rape, intimate partner violence, and
grief. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive
Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 9.

## Review Date 4/19/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Sexual Problems in
Women](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SexualProblemsinWomen_thumb.jpg)Sexual
Problems in Women _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

