Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001487.htm    
                                Description: Vaginismus is a spasm of the muscles surrounding the vagina that occurs against your will. The spasms close the vagina and can prevent sexual activity and medical exams.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Vaginismus

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001487.htm

# Vaginismus

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Vaginismus is a spasm of the muscles surrounding the vagina that occurs
against your will. The spasms close the vagina and can prevent sexual activity
and medical exams.

## Causes

Vaginismus is a sexual problem. It has several possible causes, including:

    * Past sexual trauma or abuse
    * Mental health factors
    * A response that develops due to physical pain
    * Intercourse

Sometimes no cause can be found.

Vaginismus is an uncommon condition.

## Symptoms

The main symptoms are:

    * Difficult or painful vaginal penetration during sex. Vaginal penetration may not be possible.
    * Vaginal pain during sexual intercourse or a pelvic exam.

Women with vaginismus often become anxious about sexual intercourse. This does
not mean they cannot become sexually aroused. Many women with this problem can
have orgasms when the clitoris is stimulated.

## Exams and Tests

A pelvic exam can confirm the diagnosis. A medical history and complete
physical exam are needed to look for other causes of pain with sexual
intercourse (dyspareunia).

## Treatment

A health care team made up of a gynecologist, physical therapist, and sexual
counselor can help with treatment.

Treatment involves a combination of physical therapy, education, counseling,
and exercises such as pelvic floor muscle contraction and relaxation (Kegel
exercises).

Vaginal dilation exercises using plastic dilators are recommended. This method
helps to make the person less sensitive to vaginal penetration. These
exercises should be done under the direction of a sex therapist, physical
therapist, or other health care provider. Therapy should involve the partner
and can slowly lead to more intimate contact. Intercourse may ultimately be
possible.

You will get information from your provider. Topics may include:

    * Sexual anatomy
    * Sexual response cycle
    * Common myths about sex 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Women who are treated by a sex therapy specialist can very often overcome this
problem.

## Alternative Names

Sexual dysfunction - vaginismus

## Images

    * ![Female reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1112t.jpg)Female reproductive anatomy
    * ![Causes of painful intercourse](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17114t.jpg)Causes of painful intercourse
    * ![Female reproductive anatomy \(mid-sagittal\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9110t.jpg)Female reproductive anatomy (mid-sagittal)

## References

Cowley DS, Lentz GM. Emotional aspects of gynecology: depression, anxiety,
PTSD, eating disorders, substance use disorders, "difficult" patients, sexual
function, rape, intimate partner violence, and grief. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson
DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 9.

Swerdloff RS, Wang C. Sexual dysfunction. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de
Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 123.

## Review Date 4/19/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Sexual Problems in
Women](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SexualProblemsinWomen_thumb.jpg)Sexual
Problems in Women _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

