Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000892.htm    
                                Description: Vaginal dryness is present when the tissues of the vagina are not well-lubricated and healthy.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Vaginal dryness

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000892.htm

# Vaginal dryness

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Vaginal dryness is present when the tissues of the vagina are not well-
lubricated and healthy.

## Causes

Atrophic vaginitis is caused by a decrease in estrogen.

Estrogen keeps the tissues of the vagina lubricated and healthy. Normally, the
lining of the vagina makes a clear, lubricating fluid. This fluid makes sexual
intercourse more comfortable. It also helps decrease vaginal dryness.

If estrogen levels drop off, the tissues of the vagina shrink and become
thinner. This causes dryness and inflammation.

Estrogen levels normally drop after menopause. The following may also cause
estrogen levels to drop:

    * Medicines or hormones used in the treatment of breast cancer, endometriosis, fibroids, or infertility
    * Surgery to remove the ovaries
    * Radiation treatment to the pelvic area
    * Chemotherapy
    * Severe stress, depression
    * Smoking 

Some women develop this problem right after childbirth or while breastfeeding.
Estrogen levels are lower at these times.

The vagina can also become further irritated from soaps, laundry detergents,
lotions, perfumes, or douches. Certain medicines, smoking, tampons, and
condoms may also cause or worsen vaginal dryness.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

    * Burning on urination
    * Light bleeding after intercourse
    * Painful sexual intercourse
    * Slight vaginal discharge
    * Vaginal soreness, itching or burning 

## Exams and Tests

A pelvic exam shows that the walls of the vagina are thin, pale or red.

Your vaginal discharge may be tested to rule out other causes for the
condition. You may also have hormone level tests to find out if you are in
menopause.

## Treatment

There are many treatments for vaginal dryness. Before treating your symptoms
on your own, a health care provider must find out the cause of the problem.

    * Try using lubricants and vaginal moisturizing creams. They will often moisten the area for several hours, up to a day. These can be bought without prescription.
    * Use of a water-soluble vaginal lubricant during intercourse may help. Products with petroleum jelly, mineral oil, or other oils may damage latex condoms or diaphragms.
    * Avoid scented soaps, lotions, perfumes, or douches. 

Prescription estrogen can work well to treat atrophic vaginitis. It is
available as a cream, tablet, suppository, or ring. All of these are placed
directly into the vagina. These medicines deliver estrogen directly to the
vaginal area. Only a little estrogen is absorbed into the bloodstream.

You may take estrogen (hormone therapy) in the form of a skin patch, or in a
pill that you take by mouth if you have hot flashes or other symptoms of
menopause. The pill or patch may not provide adequate estrogen to treat your
vaginal dryness. In such cases, you may need to add a vaginal hormone medicine
as well. If so, talk to your provider about this.

You should discuss the risks and benefits of estrogen replacement therapy with
your provider.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Proper treatment will ease symptoms most of the time.

## Possible Complications

Vaginal dryness can:

    * Make you more likely to get yeast or bacterial infections of the vagina.
    * Cause sores or cracks in the walls of the vagina.
    * Cause pain with sexual intercourse, which may affect your relationship with your partner or spouse. (Talking openly with your partner may help.)
    * Increase your risk of developing urinary tract infections (UTI).

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have vaginal dryness or soreness, burning, itching,
or painful sexual intercourse that does not go away when you use a water-
soluble lubricant.

## Alternative Names

Vaginitis - atrophic; Vaginitis due to reduced estrogen; Atrophic vaginitis;
Menopause vaginal dryness

## Images

    * ![Female reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1112t.jpg)Female reproductive anatomy
    * ![Causes of painful intercourse](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17114t.jpg)Causes of painful intercourse
    * ![Uterus](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19263t.jpg)Uterus
    * ![Normal uterine anatomy \(cut section\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8608t.jpg)Normal uterine anatomy (cut section)

## References

Ball JW, Dains JE, Flynn JA, Solomon BS, Stewart RW. Female genitalia. In:
Ball JW, Dains JE, Flynn JA, Solomon BS, Stewart RW, eds. _Seidel's Guide to
Physical Examination_. 9th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2019:chap 19.

Gardella C, Eckert LO, Lentz GM. Genital tract infections: vulva, vagina,
cervix, toxic shock syndrome, endometritis, and salpingitis. In: Lobo RA,
Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 23.

Lobo RA. Menopause and care of the mature woman: endocrinology, consequences
of estrogen deficiency, effects of hormone therapy, and other treatment
options. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive
Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 14.

Salas RN, Anderson S. Women in the wilderness. In: Auerbach PS, Cushing TA,
Harris NS, eds. _Auerbach's Wilderness Medicine_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 92.

Santoro N, Neal-Perry G. Menopause. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 227.

## Review Date 6/30/2019

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Sexual Problems in
Women](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SexualProblemsinWomen_thumb.jpg)Sexual
Problems in Women _Read more_

![Vaginal
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VaginalDiseases_thumb.jpg)Vaginal
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

