Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000840.htm    
                                Description: Getting treatment for cancer can cause side effects. Some of these side effects can affect your sex life or fertility, which is your ability to have children. These side effects may last for a short time    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cancer treatment: fertility and sexual side effects in women

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000840.htm

# Cancer treatment: fertility and sexual side effects in women

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Getting treatment for cancer can cause side effects. Some of these side
effects can affect your sex life or fertility, which is your ability to have
children. These side effects may last for a short time or be permanent. The
type of side effect you have depends on your type of cancer and your
treatment.

## Cancers Most Likely to Have Sexual Side Effects

Many cancer treatments can cause sexual side effects. But you are more likely
to have these side effects if you are being treated for one of these types of
cancer:

    * Cervical cancer
    * Ovarian cancer
    * Colorectal cancer
    * Uterine cancer
    * Vaginal cancer
    * Breast cancer
    * Bladder cancer

## Types of Sexual Side Effects

For women, the most common sexual side effects include:

    * Loss of desire
    * Pain during sex

Other side effects can include:

    * Not being able to have an orgasm
    * Numbness or pain in the genitals
    * Problems with fertility

Many people also have emotional side effects after cancer treatment, such as
feeling depressed or bad about your body. These side effects can also affect
your sex life. You may not feel like having sex or may not want your partner
to touch your body.

## How Cancer Treatment Causes These Side Effects

Different types of cancer treatment can affect your sexuality and fertility in
different ways.

Surgery for cancer:

    * Pelvic surgery can cause pain and problems having sex or getting pregnant.
    * Some women who have surgery to remove all or part of a breast find they have less interest in sex.
    * The type of side effect you have depends on which part of the body where you have the surgery and how much tissue is removed. 

Chemotherapy can cause:

    * Loss of sexual desire
    * Pain with sex and problems having an orgasm
    * Vaginal dryness and shrinking and thinning of the vaginal walls due to lower estrogen.
    * Problems with fertility 

Radiation therapy can cause:

    * Loss of sexual desire
    * Changes in the lining of your vagina. This can cause pain and problems with fertility. 

Hormone therapy for breast cancer can cause:

    * Loss of sexual desire
    * Vaginal pain or dryness
    * Trouble having an orgasm 

## Talk About Side Effects

One of the most important things you can do is to talk with your doctor about
sexual side effects before your treatment. Ask what types of possible side
effects to expect and how long they will last. This way, you will know what to
expect. You should also talk about these changes with your partner.

If your treatment can cause fertility problems, you may want to see a
fertility doctor before your treatment to discuss your options if you want to
have children. These options may include freezing your eggs or ovarian tissue.

## Sex During Treatment

Although many women continue to have sex during cancer treatment, you may find
you are not interested in sex. Both of these responses are normal.

If you do want to have sex, make sure to ask your doctor if it is OK. Also ask
about using birth control. In many cases, it is not safe to get pregnant
during cancer treatment.

## Coping with Sexual Changes

Sex may feel different for you after your treatment, but there are ways to
help cope.

    * Focus on the positive. Feeling bad about your body can affect your sex life. Look for little ways to give yourself a lift, such as a new hairstyle, new makeup or a new outfit.
    * Give yourself time. It can take months to heal after cancer treatment. Do not push yourself to have sex just because you think you should. Once you are ready, remember that it may take longer for you to feel aroused. You also may need to use a lubricant.
    * Keep an open mind. There is not just one way to have sex. Try to stay open to all ways of being intimate. Experiment with new ways of touching. You may find that what feels good after treatment is not the same as what felt good before treatment.
    * See your doctor. If you are having pain with sex, tell your doctor. You may be recommended creams, lubricants, or other treatments.
    * Talk with your partner. This is very important. Try to be open about your feelings. Be honest about what would make you feel good. And try to listen to your partner's concerns or desires with an open mind.
    * Share your feelings. It is normal to feel anger or grief after cancer treatment. Do not hold it in. Talk with close friends and family. It can also help to talk with a counselor if you cannot shake feelings of loss and grief.

## Alternative Names

Radiotherapy - fertility; Radiation - fertility; Chemotherapy - fertility;
Sexual dysfunction - cancer treatment

## References

American Cancer Society website. Fertility and women with cancer.
www.cancer.org/treatment/treatments-and-side-effects/physical-side-
effects/fertility-and-sexual-side-effects/fertility-and-women-with-
cancer.html. Updated November 6, 2016. Accessed August 22, 2018.

American Cancer Society website. Questions women have about cancer, sex, and
getting professional help. www.cancer.org/treatment/treatments-and-side-
effects/physical-side-effects/fertility-and-sexual-side-effects/sexuality-for-
women-with-cancer/faqs.html. Updated January 12, 2017. Accessed August 22,
2018.

Beaupin LK, O'Connor T, Trump DL. Reproductive complications. In: Niederhuber
JE, Armitage JO, Doroshow JH, Kastan MB, Tepper JE, eds. _Abeloff's Clinical
Oncology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 60.

National Cancer Institute website. Fertility issues in girls and women with
cancer. www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/side-effects/fertility-women.
Updated September 22, 2017. Accessed August 22, 2018.

## Review Date 7/26/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Cancer--Living with Cancer
    * Sexual Problems in Women

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

