Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002999.htm    
                                Description: Hydrocele repair is surgery to correct the swelling of the scrotum that occurs when you have a hydrocele. A hydrocele is a collection of fluid around a testicle.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hydrocele repair

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002999.htm

# Hydrocele repair

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hydrocele repair is surgery to correct the swelling of the scrotum that occurs
when you have a hydrocele. A hydrocele is a collection of fluid around a
testicle.

Baby boys sometimes have a hydrocele at birth. Hydroceles also occur in older
boys and men. Sometimes they form when there is also a hernia (an abnormal
bulging of tissue) present. Hydroceles are fairly common.

## Description

Surgery to repair a hydrocele is often done at an outpatient clinic. General
anesthesia is used so you will be asleep and pain-free during the procedure.

In a baby or child:

    * The surgeon makes a small surgical cut in the fold of the groin, and then drains the fluid. The sac (hydrocele) holding the fluid may be removed. The surgeon strengthens the muscle wall with stitches. This is called a hernia repair.
    * Sometimes the surgeon uses a laparoscope to do this procedure. A laparoscope is a tiny camera that the surgeon inserts into the area through a small surgical cut. The camera is attached to a video monitor. The surgeon makes the repair with small instruments that are inserted through other small surgical cuts.

In adults:

    * The cut is most often made on the scrotum. The surgeon then drains the fluid after removing part of the hydrocele sac.

Needle drainage of the fluid is not done very often because the problem will
always come back.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Hydroceles often go away on their own in children, but not in adults. Most
hydroceles in infants will go away by the time they are 2 years old.

Your surgeon may recommend hydrocele repair if the hydrocele:

    * Becomes too large
    * Causes problems with blood flow
    * Is infected
    * Is painful or uncomfortable 

The repair may also be done if there is a hernia associated with the problem.

## Risks

Risks for any anesthesia are:

    * Allergic reactions to medicines
    * Breathing problems

Risks for any surgery are:

    * Bleeding
    * Infection
    * Blood clots
    * Recurrence of the hydrocele

## Before the Procedure

Always tell your health care provider what drugs you are taking, even drugs,
supplements, or herbs you bought without a prescription. Also tell your
provider if you have any drug allergies or if you have had bleeding problems
in the past.

Several days before surgery, adults may be asked to stop taking aspirin or
other drugs that affect blood clotting. These include ibuprofen (Motrin,
Advil), naproxen (Naprosyn, Aleve), some herbal supplements, and others.

You or your child may be asked to stop eating and drinking at least 6 hours
before the procedure.

Take the medicines you have been told to take with a small sip of water.

## After the Procedure

Recovery is quick in most cases. Most people can go home a few hours after
surgery. Children should limit activity and get extra rest in the first few
days after surgery. In most cases, normal activity can start again in about 4
to 7 days.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The success rate for hydrocele repair is very high. The long-term outlook is
excellent. However, another hydrocele may form over time, or if there was also
a hernia present.

## Alternative Names

Hydrocelectomy

## Images

    * ![Hydrocele repair - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/15855t.jpg)Hydrocele repair - series

## References

Aiken JJ, Oldham KT. Inguinal hernias. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme
JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 346.

Cancian MJ, Caldamone AA. Special considerations in the pediatric patient. In:
Taneja SS, Shah O, eds. _Taneja's Complications of Urologic Surgery_. 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 54.

Celigoj FA, Costabile RA. Surgery of the scrotum and seminal vesicles. In:
Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_.
11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 41.

Palmer LS, Palmer JS. Management of abnormalities of the external genitalia in
boys. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh
Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 146.

## Review Date 1/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Testicular
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TesticularDisorders_thumb.jpg)Testicular
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

