Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000517.htm    
                                Description: Testicular torsion is the twisting of the spermatic cord, which supports the testes in the scrotum. When this occurs, blood supply is cut off to the testicles and nearby tissue in the scrotum.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Testicular torsion

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000517.htm

# Testicular torsion

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Testicular torsion is the twisting of the spermatic cord, which supports the
testes in the scrotum. When this occurs, blood supply is cut off to the
testicles and nearby tissue in the scrotum.

## Causes

Some men are more prone to this condition because of defects in the connective
tissue within the scrotum. The problem may also occur after an injury to the
scrotum that results in a lot of swelling, or following heavy exercise. In
some cases, there is no clear cause.

The condition is more common during the first year of life and at the
beginning of adolescence (puberty). However, it may happen in older men.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

    * Sudden severe pain in one testicle. The pain may occur without a clear reason.
    * Swelling within one side of the scrotum (scrotal swelling).
    * Nausea or vomiting.

Additional symptoms that may be associated with this disease:

    * Testicle lump
    * Blood in the semen
    * Testicle pulled to a higher position in scrotum than normal (high riding)

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will examine you. The exam may show:

    * Extreme tenderness and swelling in the testicle area.
    * The testicle on the affected side is higher.

You may have a Doppler ultrasound of the testicle to check the blood flow.
There will be no blood flowing through the area if you have complete torsion.
Blood flow may be reduced if the cord is partly twisted.

## Treatment

Most of the time, surgery is needed to correct the problem. The procedure
involves untwisting the cord and sewing the testicle to the inside wall of the
scrotum. Surgery should be done as soon as possible after symptoms begin. If
it is performed within 6 hours, most of the testicle can be saved.

During surgery, the testicle on the other side is often secured into place as
well. This is because the unaffected testicle is at risk of testicular torsion
in the future.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The testicle may continue to function properly if the condition is found early
and treated right away. The chances that the testicle will need to be removed
increase if blood flow is reduced for more than 6 hours. However, sometimes it
may lose its ability to function even if torsion has lasted fewer than 6
hours.

## Possible Complications

The testicle may shrink if blood supply is cut off for an extended time. It
may need to be surgically removed. Shrinkage of the testicle may occur days to
months after the torsion has been corrected. Severe infection of the testicle
and scrotum is also possible if the blood flow is limited for a long period.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Get emergency medical attention if you have symptoms of testicular torsion as
soon as possible. It is better to go to an emergency room instead of an urgent
care in case you need to have surgery right away.

## Prevention

Take steps to avoid injury to the scrotum. Many cases cannot be prevented.

## Alternative Names

Torsion of the testis; Testicular ischemia; Testicular twisting

## Images

    * ![Male reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1113t.jpg)Male reproductive anatomy
    * ![Male reproductive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9658t.jpg)Male reproductive system
    * ![Testicular torsion repair - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19120t.jpg)Testicular torsion repair - series

## References

Elder JS. Disorders and anomalies of the scrotal contents. In: Kliegman RM,
St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 560.

Germann CA, Holmes JA. Selected urologic disorders. In: Walls RM, Hockberger
RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 89.

Kryger JV. Acute and chronic scrotal swelling. In: Kleigman RM, Lye PS,
Bordini BJ, Toth H, Basel D, eds. _Nelson Pediatric Symptom-Based Diagnosis_.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 21.

Palmer LS, Palmer JS. Management of abnormalities of the external genitalia in
boys. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh
Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 146.

## Review Date 7/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Testicular
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TesticularDisorders_thumb.jpg)Testicular
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

