Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003160.htm    
                                Description: Testicle pain is discomfort in one or both testicles. The pain can spread into the lower abdomen.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Testicle pain

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003160.htm

# Testicle pain

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Testicle pain is discomfort in one or both testicles. The pain can spread into
the lower abdomen.

## Causes

The testicles are very sensitive. Even a minor injury can cause pain. In some
conditions, abdominal pain may occur before testicle pain.

Common causes of testicle pain include:

    * Injury.
    * Infection or swelling of the sperm ducts (epididymitis) or testicles (orchitis).
    * Twisting of the testicles that can cut off the blood supply (testicular torsion). It is most common in young men between 10 and 20 years old. It is a medical emergency that needs to be treated as soon as possible. If surgery is performed within 4 hours, most testicles can be saved. 

Mild pain may be caused by fluid collection in the scrotum, such as:

    * Enlarged veins in the scrotum (varicocele).
    * Cyst in the epididymis that often contains dead sperm cells (spermatocele).
    * Fluid surrounding the testicle (hydrocele).
    * Pain in the testicles may also be caused by a hernia or kidney stone.
    * Testicular cancer is almost always painless. But any testicle lump should be checked out by your health care provider, whether or not there is pain. 

## Home Care

Non-urgent causes of testicle pain, such as minor injuries and fluid
collection, can often be treated with home care. The following steps may
reduce discomfort and swelling:

    * Provide support to the scrotum by wearing an athletic supporter.
    * Apply ice to the scrotum.
    * Take warm baths if there are signs of swelling.
    * While lying down, place a rolled towel under your scrotum.
    * Try over-the-counter pain relievers, such as acetaminophen or ibuprofen. Do NOT give aspirin to children.

Take the antibiotics your health care provider gives you if the pain is caused
by infection. Preventive measures to take:

    * Prevent injury by wearing an athletic supporter during contact sports.
    * Follow safe sex practices. If you are diagnosed with chlamydia or another STD, all of your sexual partners need to be checked to see if they are infected.
    * Make sure that children have received the MMR (mumps, measles, and rubella) vaccine.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Sudden, severe testicle pain needs immediate medical care.

Call your providerÂ right awayÂ or go to an emergency room if:

    * Your pain is severe or sudden.
    * You have had an injury or trauma to the scrotum, and you still have pain or swelling after 1 hour.
    * Your pain is accompanied by nausea or vomiting. 

Also call your provider right away if:

    * You feel a lump in the scrotum.
    * You have a fever.
    * Your scrotum is warm, tender to the touch, or red.
    * You have been in contact with someone who has the mumps. 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will do an exam of your groin, testicles, and abdomen. Your
provider will ask you questions about the pain such as:

    * How long have you had testicular pain? Did it start suddenly or slowly?
    * Is one side higher than usual?
    * Where do you feel the pain? Is it on one or both sides?
    * How bad is the pain? Is it constant or does it come and go?
    * Does the pain reach into your abdomen or back?
    * Have you had any injuries?
    * Have you ever had an infection spread by sexual contact?
    * Do you have a urethral discharge?
    * Do you have any other symptoms like swelling, redness, change in the color of your urine, fever, or unexpected weight loss?

The following tests may be performed:

    * Ultrasound of the testicles
    * Urinalysis and urine cultures
    * Testing of prostate secretions
    * CT scan or other imaging tests
    * Urine test for sexually transmitted infections

## Alternative Names

Pain - testicle; Orchalgia; Epididymitis; Orchitis

## Images

    * ![Male reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1113t.jpg)Male reproductive anatomy

## References

Matsumoto AM, Anawalt BD. Testicular disorders. In: Melmed S, Auchus RJ,
Goldfine AB, Koenig RJ, Rosen CJ, eds. _Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_.
14th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 19.

McGowan CC. Prostatitis, epididymitis, and orchitis. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R,
Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 110.

Nickel JC. Inflammatory and pain conditions of the male genitourinary tract:
prostatitis and related pain conditions, orchitis, and epididymitis. In: Wein
AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 13.

## Review Date 7/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Testicular
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TesticularDisorders_thumb.jpg)Testicular
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

