Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000395.htm    
                                Description: Testicular failureÂ occurs when the testicles cannot produce sperm or male hormones, such as testosterone.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Testicular failure

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000395.htm

# Testicular failure

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Testicular failureÂ occurs when the testicles cannot produce sperm or male
hormones, such as testosterone.

## Causes

Testicular failure is uncommon. Causes include:

    * Certain medicines, including glucocorticoids, ketoconazole, chemotherapy, and opioid pain medicines
    * Diseases that affect the testicle, including hemochromatosis, mumps, orchitis, testicular cancer, testicular torsion, and varicoceleÂ 
    * Injury or trauma to the testicles
    * Obesity
    * Genetic diseases, such as Klinefelter syndrome or Prader-Willi syndrome
    * Other diseases, such as cystic fibrosis

The following can increase the risk of testicular failure:

    * Activities that cause constant, low-level injury to the scrotum, such as riding a motorcycle or bicycle
    * Frequent and heavy use of marijuana
    * Undescended testicles at birth

## Symptoms

Symptoms depend on the age when testicular failure develops, either before or
after puberty.

Symptoms may include:

    * Decrease in height
    * Enlarged breasts (gynecomastia)
    * Infertility
    * Loss of muscle mass
    * Lack of sex drive (libido)
    * Loss of armpit and pubic hair
    * Slow development or lack of secondary male sex characteristics (hair growth, scrotum enlargement, penis enlargement, voice changes)

Men may also notice they do not need to shave as often.

## Exams and Tests

A physical exam may show:

    * Genitals that do not clearly look either male or female (usually found during infancy)
    * Abnormally small, firmÂ testicles
    * Tumor orÂ an abnormal mass in the testicle or the scrotum

Other tests may show low bone mineral density and fractures. Blood tests may
show aÂ low level of testosterone and high levels of prolactin, FSH, and LHÂ
(determines if the problem is primary or secondary).

If your concern is fertility, yourÂ health care providerÂ may also order a
semen analysisÂ to examine the number of healthy sperm you are producing.

Sometimes, an ultrasound of the testes will be ordered.

Testicular failure and low testosterone level may be hard to diagnose in older
men because testosterone level normally decreases slowly with age.

## Treatment

Male hormone supplements may treat some forms of testicular failure. This
treatment is called testosterone replacement therapy (TRT). TRT can be given
as a gel, patch, injection, or implant.

Avoiding the medicine or activity that is causing the problem may bring
testicle function back to normal.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Many forms of testicular failure cannot be reversed. TRT can help reverse
symptoms, although it may not restore fertility.

Men who are having chemotherapy that can cause testicular failure should
discuss freezing sperm samples before the starting treatment.

## Possible Complications

Testicular failure that begins before puberty will stop normal body growth. It
can prevent adult male characteristics (such as deep voice and beard) from
developing.Â This can be treated with TRT.

Men who are on TRT need to be carefully monitored by a doctor. TRT may cause
the following:

    * Enlarged prostate, leading to difficulty urinating
    * Blood clots
    * Changes in sleep and mood

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your provider if you have symptoms of testicular
failure.

Also call your provider if you're on TRT and you think you're having side
effects from the treatment.

## Prevention

Avoid higher-risk activities if possible.

## Alternative Names

Primary hypogonadism - male

## Images

    * ![Testicular anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8962t.jpg)Testicular anatomy
    * ![Male reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1113t.jpg)Male reproductive anatomy

## References

Allan CA, McLachlan RI. Androgen deficiency disorders. In: Jameson JL, De
Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 139.

Morgentaler A, Zitzmann M, Traish AM, et al. Fundamental concepts regarding
testosterone deficiency and treatment: international expert consensus
resolutions. _Mayo Clin Proc_. 2016;91(7):881-896. PMID: 27313122
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27313122.

US Food and Drug Administration website. FDA drug safety communication: FDA
cautions about using testosterone products for low testosterone due to aging;
requires labeling change to inform of possible increased risk of heart attack
and stroke with use. www.fda.gov/Drugs/DrugSafety/ucm436259.htm. Updated
February 26, 2018. Accessed May 20, 2019.

## Review Date 5/6/2019

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Testicular
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TesticularDisorders_thumb.jpg)Testicular
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

