Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000390.htm    
                                Description: Hypogonadism is a condition in which the male testesÂ or the female ovaries produce little or no sex hormones.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hypogonadotropic hypogonadism

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000390.htm

# Hypogonadotropic hypogonadism

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hypogonadism is a condition in which the male testesÂ or the female ovaries
produce little or no sex hormones.

Hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (HH) is a form ofÂ hypogonadism that is due to a
problem with the pituitary gland or hypothalamus.

## Causes

HH is caused by a lack of hormones that normally stimulate the ovaries or
testes. These hormones include gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH), follicle
stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH).

Normally:

    * The hypothalamus in the brain releases GnRH.
    * This hormone stimulates the pituitary gland to release FSH and LH.
    * These hormones tell the female ovaries or the male testes to release hormones that lead to normal sexual development in puberty, normal menstrual cycles, estrogen levels and fertility in adult women, and normal testosterone production and sperm production in adult men.
    * Any change in this hormone release chain causes a lack of sex hormones. This prevents normal sexual maturity in children and normal function of the testicles or ovaries in adults.

There are several causes of HH:

    * Damage to the pituitary gland or hypothalamus from surgery, injury, tumor, infection, or radiation
    * Genetic defects
    * High doses or long-term use of opioid or steroid (glucocorticoid) medicines
    * High prolactin level (a hormone released by the pituitary)
    * Severe stress
    * Nutritional problems (both rapid weight gain or weight loss)
    * Long-term (chronic) medical diseases, including chronic inflammation or infections
    * Drug use, such as heroin or use or abuse of prescription opiate medicines
    * Certain medical conditions, such as iron overload

Kallmann syndrome is an inherited form of HH. Some people with this condition
also have anosmia (loss of the sense of smell).

## Symptoms

Children:

    * Lack of development at puberty (development may be very late or incomplete)  

    * In girls, a lack of breast development and menstrual periods
    * In boys, no development of sex characteristics, such as enlargement of the testes and penis, deepening of the voice, and facial hair
    * Inability to smell (in some cases)
    * Short stature (in some cases)

Adults:

    * Loss of interest in sex (libido) in men
    * Loss of menstrual periods (amenorrhea) in women
    * Decreased energy and interest in activities
    * Loss of muscle mass in men
    * Weight gain
    * Mood changes
    * Infertility  

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about your
symptoms.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Blood tests to measure hormone levels such as FSH, LH, and TSH, prolactin, testosterone and estradiol
    * LH response to GnRH
    * MRI of the pituitary gland/hypothalamusÂ (to look for a tumor or other growth)
    * Genetic testing
    * Blood tests to check for iron level

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the source of the problem, but may involve:

    * Injections of testosterone (in males)
    * Slow-release testosterone skin patch (in males)
    * Testosterone gels (in males)
    * Estrogen and progesterone pills or skin patches (in females)
    * GnRH injections
    * HCG injectionsÂ   

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The right hormone treatment will cause puberty to start in children and may
restore fertility in adults. If the condition begins after puberty or in
adulthood, symptoms will often improve with treatment.

## Possible Complications

Health problems that may result from HH include:

    * Delayed puberty
    * Early menopause (in females)Â 
    * Infertility 
    * Low bone density and fractures later in life
    * Low self-esteem due to late start of puberty (emotional support may be helpful)
    * Sexual problems, such as low libido

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * Your child does notÂ start puberty at the appropriate time.Â 
    * You are a woman under age 40 and your menstrual cycles stop.
    * You have lost armpit or pubic hair.
    * You are a man and you have decreased interest in sex.

## Alternative Names

Gonadotropin deficiency; Secondary hypogonadism

## Images

    * ![Endocrine glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1093t.jpg)Endocrine glands
    * ![The pituitary gland](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17227t.jpg)Pituitary gland
    * ![Gonadotropins](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17228t.jpg)Gonadotropins

## References

Bhasin S, Brito JP, Cunningham GR, et al. Testosterone therapy in men with
hypogonadism: an Endocrine Society clinical practice guideline. _J Clin
Endocrinol Metab_. 2018;103(5):1715-1744. PMID: 29562364
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29562364.

Styne DM, Grumbach MM. Physiology and disorders of puberty. In: Melmed S,
Polonsky KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of
Endocrinology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 25.

White PC. Sexual development and identity. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 220.

## Review Date 7/16/2019

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Endocrine
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EndocrineDiseases_thumb.jpg)Endocrine
Diseases _Read more_

![Testicular
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TesticularDisorders_thumb.jpg)Testicular
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

