Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003162.htm    
                                Description: A testicle lump is swelling or a growth (mass) in one or both testicles.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Testicle lump

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003162.htm

# Testicle lump

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A testicle lump is swelling or a growth (mass) in one or both testicles.

## Considerations

A testicle lump that does not hurt may be a sign of cancer. Most cases of
testicular cancer occur in men ages 15 to 40. It can also occur at older or
younger ages.

## Causes

Possible causes of a painful scrotal mass include:

    * A cyst-like lump in the scrotum that contains fluid and dead sperm cells (spermatocele). (This condition sometimes does not cause pain.)
    * Epididymitis.
    * Infection of the scrotal sac.
    * Injury or trauma.
    * Mumps.
    * Orchitis (testicular infection).
    * Testicular torsion.
    * Testicular cancer.
    * Varicocele.

Possible causes if the scrotal mass is not painful:

    * Loop of bowel from a hernia (this may or may not cause pain)
    * Hydrocele
    * Spermatocele
    * Testicular cancer
    * Varicocele 
    * Cyst of epididymis or testicle

## Home Care

Starting in puberty, men at risk for testicular cancer may be taught to do
regular exams of their testicles. This includes men with:

    * A family history of testicular cancer
    * A past tumor of the testicle
    * An undescended testicle, even if the testicle on the other side has descended

If you have a lump in your testicle, tell your health care provider right
away. A lump on the testicle may be the first sign of testicular cancer. Many
men with testicular cancer have been given a wrong diagnosis. Therefore, it is
important to go back to your provider if you have a lump that doesn't go away.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider right away if you notice any unexplained lumps or any other
changes in your testicles.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will examine you. This may include looking at and feeling
(palpating) the testicles and scrotum. You will be asked questions about your
health history and symptoms, such as:

    * When did you notice the lump?
    * Have you had any previous lumps?
    * Do you have any pain? Does the lump change in size?
    * Exactly where on the testicle is the lump? Is only one testicle involved?
    * Have you had any recent injuries or infections? Have you ever had surgery on your testicles or in the area?
    * What other symptoms do you have?
    * Is there scrotal swelling?
    * Do you have abdominal pain or lumps or swelling anywhere else?
    * Were you born with both testicles in the scrotum? 

Tests and treatments depend on the results of the physical exam. A scrotal
ultrasound may be done to find the cause of the swelling.

## Alternative Names

Lump in the testicle; Scrotal mass

## Images

    * ![Male reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1113t.jpg)Male reproductive anatomy

## References

Elder JS. Disorders and anomalies of the scrotal contents. In: Kliegman RM,
Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 545.

Fadich A, Giorgianni SJ, Rovito MJ, et al. USPSTF testicular examination
nomination-self-examinations and examinations in a clinical setting. _Am J
Mens Health_. 2018;12(5):1510-1516. PMID: 29717912
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29717912.

Palmer LS, Palmer JS. Management of abnormalities of the external genitalia in
boys. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh
Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 146.

Stephenson AJ, Gilligan TD. Neoplasms of the testis. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR,
Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 34.

## Review Date 1/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Testicular
Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TesticularCancer_thumb.jpg)Testicular
Cancer _Read more_

![Testicular
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TesticularDisorders_thumb.jpg)Testicular
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

