

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Tuberculosis (TB)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syndicate

# Supporting TB Control

Minus

CDC U.S.TB Elimination Champions

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1. Supporting TB Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2. Building Partnerships
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3. Expanding Testing and Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4. Focusing on Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5. Maximizing Resources

Minus

Related Pages

Return to TB Elimination Champions

Open All Close All

We Are TB

![We Are TB](/tb/worldtbday/images/wearetb-champions.jpg)

_We Are TB_  is a true TB elimination champion through its efforts in raising
awareness about the disease. A personal experience with TB motivated the
organization's founder, Carrie Fritschy, to form it. In November 2012, her 1 ½
year old daughter, Scarlett, began to show symptoms of TB; however, Scarlett's
pediatricians did not immediately think TB when treating the young patient.
For months, Scarlett endured months of sleepless nights where her fever would
spike as high as 104⁰.

After five months of suffering with fevers, rashes, and pain, Scarlett was
diagnosed with TB within days of being tested. The family continued to have
sleepless nights as they began the antibiotics to treat TB disease. There were
a lot of tears, but for the most part, Scarlett took her medicine at every
appointment and progressed quickly. After six months of treatment, Carrie and
her husband got the final X-rays saying her lungs were cleared. Scarlett is
now healthy and happy and living the life she deserves.

Carrie recounts how scary and lonely the period of time was after they
received Scarlett's diagnosis. The family was encouraged not to share her
diagnosis with anyone, which caused them to be afraid of the reactions they
might get if they did tell anyone. When they did share with close loved ones,
they got mixed reactions. Carrie decided to fight this stigma and bring
awareness and education so that those who battle TB disease in the future
would have a better support system.

From this experience, Carrie realized that there was not an organized group of
TB survivors in the United States to provide education and real life stories
that communities can connect to and rally behind. In response to this public
health need, she helped form _We Are TB_  as a way for survivors to stay
connected and engaged in their advocacy work to educate others on TB
prevention and control.

_We Are TB_  formed out of a partnership with the National Tuberculosis
Controllers Association, Stop TB USA, and a cohesive vision to create a
survivor based community. It developed when the first group of TB survivors
met in Atlanta for a communications training in 2015.

_We Are TB_  creates a team of survivors who serve as TB Ambassadors. The
organization has three fundamental goals, which are to:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1. Provide an informative and supportive community for patients and survivors;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2. Share personal stories to drive change at a local, state, and/or national level; and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3. Work with the media to provide perspective from a TB patient in an effort to educate the public and reduce the stigma of TB.

_We Are TB_  works with public health teams to educate the American public on
TB prevention and control. They believe that the real-life experience and
emotional depth that their organization adds to conversations about TB can
increase awareness about the realities of the disease.

Amanda Carl

![Amanda Carl, Supporting TB Control](/tb/worldtbday/images/amandacarl-
champions.jpg)Amanda Carl is a registered nurse for University of Virginia
Health System Culpeper Hospital. She is dedicated to supporting TB control in
prevention, education, testing, and treatment. Amanda maximizes resources with
partners to provide community protection and care for patients. She has worked
to coordinate aspects of patient care between various groups and across a
diverse population. These groups include public health leadership, primary
care providers, and local hospitals. She has built relationships with local
food banks and with social services to provide food and shelter to patients in
need.

Amanda regularly supports TB control through increased education to patients
and local contacts. She helps individuals understand the difference between
latent TB infection and active TB disease. She often works to calm mental
health patients who become panicked with testing and treatment options, and
refers patients for mental health services, when appropriate. She works to
coordinate mental health care and medication interaction safety to assist both
providers and patients. It is essential to Amanda that patients feel safe and
understand their treatment options and regimens.

Amanda has continued support for TB control in her dedication to employee
safety. She educates staff, health care providers, and patients on TB safety
and care. Amanda is an invaluable resource in TB control.

Madison Clawson

![Madison Clawson](/tb/worldtbday/images/madison-champions.jpg)Madison Clawson
is the Nursing Supervisor in the Infectious Disease Bureau of the Salt Lake
County Health Department. He serves on the TB Advisory Committee and the
Standards Committee. Madison helped revise the new hire screening protocol,
making its implementation smoother. He has been on the panel for the State TB
Cohort review.

There are not many managers who would go out of their way like Madison does to
help lighten the workload of his nurses. For example, Madison is always
willing to make home visits to clients, making it much easier and convenient
for his nurses. His knowledge and expertise, with over 15 years in the nursing
profession, have greatly benefited the Infectious Disease Bureau and increased
the quality of documentation and patient care.

Madison easily bridges the gap when nurses need assistance in communicating
with the state on non-adherent active TB cases and refugee coordinating
issues. For example, Madison intervened in a process that was being
implemented for the state's refugee community. It was very clear that the
process was not working, which would jeopardize the quality and timeliness of
care for refugees. Madison raised several concerns regarding this process
after discussing the issue with his nursing staff. He approached the agencies
involved and was able to bring a resolution to the problem. Madison sincerely
cares about his staff and understands the effort they go to when caring for
persons with TB disease or latent TB infection.

Charles DeGraw

![Charles DeGraw ](/tb/worldtbday/images/charles-champions.jpg)Charles DeGraw
has been an active participant in public health activities since 1967. Through
most of those years, Charles has worked tirelessly in the endeavor of TB
prevention and control. In the state of Louisiana, Charles pioneered efforts
such as detection of TB in newly arrived refugees from war-torn Viet Nam in
the 1970's. He also excelled in detecting TB in people infected with the human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Charles has supported TB detection in high risk
groups as well, including people with low income and those who have lived in
congregate housing.

Charles has excelled in his efforts to prevent and detect TB by creating a
well-organized system of follow-up for people who need treatment for TB
disease or latent TB infection. He has done this in both the public and
private sectors of health care in Louisiana. He cites two major contributors
to his continued success striving for TB elimination. The first contributor is
Dr. Dixie Snider, who presented a challenge to the country to develop new TB
tools. The second contributor is the staff of Louisiana's Department of Health
and Hospitals, Office of Public Health for their determination and skills at
using those tools to move Louisiana toward TB elimination.

Among Charles's notable achievements are his accomplishments in recognizing
the importance of testing all people with HIV infection for TB infection. He
has recognized the invaluable need to offer short term treatment with
isoniazid and rifapentine to adults with latent TB infection. Charles has
excelled in supporting the widespread use of interferon gamma release assay
(IGRA) for detection of TB infection. He has also supported efforts to reach
out to the newly arrived foreign-born persons in Louisiana. TB may not only be
prevalent among this population; it is often undiagnosed through mainstream
health care efforts. With almost five decades of public service in advocating,
championing, and serving public health efforts in TB prevention and control,
Charles is a true TB elimination champion.

City of El Paso Department of Public Health's TB Program

![City of El Paso Department of Public Health’s TB
Program](/tb/worldtbday/images/elpasodepartment-champions.jpg)The City of El
Paso Department of Public Health's TB Program is a shining example of TB
control. Within the last year and a half, El Paso TB staff have conducted
several large scale TB exposure investigations. These investigations included
the testing, evaluation, and treatment of over 1680 people. The investigation
sites included an elementary school, halfway house, adult daycare, a home
health agency, a hospital, and a dialysis center.

Mini clinics were set up at the investigation sites or nearby facilities to
ensure affected individuals could have easy access to TB testing services.
This model increased participation and speed of testing. It also allowed for
the regular health department TB clinic site to continue its normal activity.

Establishing the mini clinics was very successful. In the investigation
involving the elementary school, 100% of children with latent TB infection
began medication, and 90% of those children completed treatment. In the after-
action assessments of the investigations, health officials made
recommendations for policy changes to encourage periodic testing of school
employees and other employees within high risk, non-healthcare facilities. To
increase the speed of the initial response to a TB exposure notification,
staff developed a standardized screening/questionnaire tool. This tool has
helped prioritize contacts for testing and evaluation, resulting in earlier
identification of suspected cases.

New relationships are being developed to conduct targeted testing of
populations in El Paso with a high incidence of TB. Through these
investigations, the health department has learned the value of collaboration
with other programs and the importance of TB prevention.

F. Richard Ervin

![F. Richard Ervin, MD, South Carolina State TB Medical
Clinician](/tb/worldtbday/images/richard-champions.jpg)F. Richard Ervin, MD,
South Carolina State TB Medical Clinician, has made significant contributions
to the advancement of the state TB program. He incorporated the Tuberculin
Skin Test (TST) in 3D online tool (TSTin3D.com) in most patient evaluations.
This quantitative estimation of risk of progression from latent TB infection
to active TB disease assists in patient education. It also allows nurses to
better prioritize case management to patients at highest risk and focus on
completion of therapy.

In addition, Dr. Ervin incorporated the immediate use of NAAT (GeneXpert),
regardless of smear results, for more rapid clinical decision analysis in
persons referred to the program for suspected TB.  As the number of non-
tuberculous mycobacteria infections has increased, this tool helps to rapidly,
and objectively, separate patients who do not represent a public health threat
from those with active TB disease who require prompt therapeutic and contact
investigation interventions.  A recent example was an immunocompromised
patient with ongoing diagnoses of recurrent pneumonia prior to identification
during a contact investigation. Once identified by the local TB nurse, Dr.
Ervin ordered a NAAT regardless of smear result on a sputum specimen. Although
smear-negative, TB was confirmed and appropriate measures were immediately
undertaken.

Dr. Ervin's constant advocacy has allowed South Carolina Department of Health
and Environmental Control nurses to achieve successful outcomes in TB
elimination. He is a true TB elimination champion.

Heidi Hammond-Epstein

![heidi-champions.jpg](/tb/worldtbday/images/heidi-champions.jpg)Heidi
Hammond-Epstein is the Regional Nurse Consultant for the Florida Department of
Health, supporting the Florida Panhandle. In her current position, she
provides assistance with nursing case management, mentoring, and training. She
also coordinates case and cohort reviews, and provides onsite assistance as
needed to the 18 counties located within her assigned area.

With over 29 years of experience, Heidi is a dedicated supporter of TB
control. She has provided direct oversight of the daily operations of a high
morbidity county health department. She has conducted program development and
evaluation including program objectives, measures, and outcomes. She has also
provided TB consultation on all components of TB control and patient
management.

Heidi has established and built extensive collaboration and community
partnerships at the local, state, and national levels that served to promote
the mission, values, and goals of the department and to enhance awareness and
improve outcomes. She has participated in legal proceedings related to TB;
some of these proceedings have required her to collaborate with local and
state law enforcement to ensure that public health is protected and follow-up
recommendations are carried out.

Heidi's knowledge of TB and her willingness to teach, educate, and support
staff have consistently eased the transition for those who are new to TB
elimination. She makes personal visits to the counties that she supports to
share her expertise in any way possible. Often times, Heidi spends many hours
on the phone working to trouble shoot challenging cases or to help staff with
new technologies that have recently been implemented.

Health Network

![Health Network](/tb/worldtbday/images/healthnetwork-champions.jpg)Since its
inception in 1995, Health Network has demonstrated excellence in its role in
supporting TB control in the US. Health Network is the innovative and cost-
effective model of bridge case management for mobile patients developed by
Migrant Clinicians Network. It provides an important component in eliminating
TB in the U.S. Since 1996, Health Network's TBNet has supported TB control by
assisting thousands of patients, moving domestically and internationally, in
completing treatment. Because of their mobility, these patients are at a
higher risk of being lost to follow-up. Through these efforts Health Network
has prevented thousands of new cases of TB in the US and abroad. Health
Network ensures continuity of care and treatment completion by providing
comprehensive case management, medical records transfer, and follow-up
services for patients on the move.

Health Network associates track progress, report back to health authorities,
and link patients to services. Health Network provides a unique mechanism for
federally funded health centers, local health departments, detention
facilities, and other government-funded agencies by assisting their patients
who may move before treatment is completed. Health Network also assists with
patients who may move before test results can be communicated. Since 2005,
Health Network's TB Net has assisted 1,737 mobile TB patients, with 1,378
completing their treatment. This is a completion rate of 84.0%, which is on
par with non-mobile patients.

Using the World Health Organization (WHO) quality-adjusted life year standard,
Health Network is also cost effective. Researchers demonstrated that bridge
case management for latent TB infection through Health Network is cost
effectiveExternal. Health Network is considered an international model for
case managementExternal.

Julie Rother, Victor Zarate, and Georgina Castaneda

![Julie Rother, Victor Zarate, and Georgina
Castaneda](/tb/worldtbday/images/julie-champions.jpg)What public health staff
in Nebraska thought was one patient diagnosed with active TB, soon evolved
into a community contact investigation. Fortunately, Julie Rother, Victor
Zarate, and Georgina Castaneda, of the Northeast Nebraska Public Health
Department, were able to contain it before it became unmanageable.

The patient with active TB disease did not speak English. He was without a
support system of friends or family, thus at high risk to leave town without
notice. At that time, Julie was the only nurse on staff; however, she worked
diligently to maximize resources to help support the patient during treatment.
She found charity funds for the patient's groceries throughout the entire 3+
months and drove him 80 round trip miles weekly to a hospital lab for sputum
induction. Community Health Workers, Victor and Georgina, frequently assisted
Julie with interpretation, identifying potential contacts, and other valuable
support.

The team's contact investigation identified 13 contacts, five of whom tested
positive.  Lab tests determined that this strain of TB was _Mycobacterium_
_bovis_ , which is normally found in cattle.  

Just as the patient's lab tests showed 3 consecutive negative tests and the
isolation order was lifted after 3 months, a second confirmed case emerged. A
16 year old female who lived 30 miles from the first patient was confirmed as
having active TB disease.  There was indirect exposure to each other; both
people attended the same church.

Julie, Victor, Georgina, the state TB Coordinator, and the state public health
lab organized a TB clinic at the church. One hundred members were tested using
QuantiFERON blood tests. From the clinic, there were 28 positive and 72
negative tests.  A repeat clinic tested 51 of the individuals who initially
tested negative; 49 tested negative, and 2 were positive. These patients
continue to be tracked.

Julie, Victor, and Georgina learned many lessons from this investigation.
Their model's success depends upon trained Community Health Workers who are
trusted by the population that needs testing. The result is outstanding
patient care and TB Control.

Elizabeth Talbot

![Dr. Elizabeth Talbot is the current TB Medical Director & Deputy State
Epidemiologist ](/tb/worldtbday/images/elizabeth-champions.jpg)Dr. Elizabeth
Talbot is the current TB Medical Director & Deputy State Epidemiologist for
the New Hampshire Department of Health & Human Services, and is an Associate
Professor of Medicine, Infectious Diseases, and International Health at
Dartmouth.

Following training through the Epidemic Intelligence Service with the Division
of Tuberculosis Elimination, Dr. Talbot has worked as a consultant to the
World Health Organization (WHO) to develop guidelines to prevent antimicrobial
drug resistance for the Global Fund Against AIDS, TB, and Malaria. She has
also been a member of STOP TB's TB/HIV Working Group in Geneva, Switzerland,
and acted as an Editorial Board Member for the Consortium to Respond
Effectively to the AIDS-TB Epidemic at Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore,
MD. Dr. Talbot also has worked as a consultant for the Program for Appropriate
Technology for Health (PATH) on a Working Group for Pediatric TB Guideline
Revision and Implementation for the Democratic Republic of the Congo and the
Republic of Tanzania Ministry of Health.  

In addition to her busy schedule as an infectious diseases practitioner, Dr.
Talbot has consulted with the Foundation for Innovative New Diagnostics (FIND)
in Geneva since 2007, and works with the Stop TB Partnership as a member of
the Working Group on New TB Diagnostics. She is actively engaged with Partners
in Health to develop infectious disease clinical capacity in Haiti, which has
the highest rate of TB in the Western Hemisphere.

Dr. Talbot has a strong background in supporting TB control. She has extensive
training in TB epidemiology, diagnosis, treatment, and control. She readily
shares and imparts her knowledge to all public health nurses, both state and
local.  She has also worked closely with not just the nurses, but the entire
Division of Public Health & Community Services, as well. Her intelligence and
assistance to the New Hampshire TB Program has had a major effect on the
quality of care and management of TB cases in the state.

Tuberculosis Foundation of Virginia

![Tuberculosis Foundation of
Virginia](/tb/worldtbday/images/tuberculosisfoundation-champions.jpg)For many
years, the Tuberculosis Foundation of Virginia has funded TB outreach workers
to provide directly observed therapy (DOT) in several Virginia Department of
Health (VDH) public health districts in southwest Virginia. The Foundation has
made rent and mortgage payments for patients with TB. Food, utility bills,
diagnostic tests, medical expenses, and other incentives and enablers have
been covered by this organization. The Foundation has not only helped
patients, they have also made it possible for Virginia's doctors, public
health nurses, and health district directors to attend the TB Comprehensive
Clinical Courses by covering registration and travel expenses. This
opportunity has provided these TB providers with the needed skills and
education to provide excellent care.

The Foundation has contributed to improving TB treatment outcomes in many of
the state's most complicated and seriously ill TB patients through research.
Since 2011, the Foundation has given thousands of dollars towards therapeutic
drug monitoring through serum drug level testing (SDL) for patients
experiencing complications with treatment. Last year alone, there were 124
individual tests done for 78 clients. Virginia has been recognized as a leader
in serum drug level monitoring. One of the state's medical consultants
presented internationally on the state's results of improvement with the
subsequent increased doses of medication that occur when the drug levels are
found below the expected range. This intervention has improved treatment
outcomes in diabetic patients.

These findings have also led to enhanced case management strategies for TB
patients with diabetes. A training flipchart, "Key Messages for TB and
Diabetes" was developed as a direct result of SDL testing. It addresses the
relationship between TB and diabetes. This flipchart can play a role in
improving diabetes control in Virginia citizens long after TB treatment is
complete.

Other contributions that the Tuberculosis Foundation of Virginia has made
toward TB elimination include:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Endowing a professor of pulmonology at the University of Virginia;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Supporting the physician consult line at National Jewish Health for over 20 years;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Sponsoring a speaker at Carilion's Postgraduate Program, annually; and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Sponsoring the RLA Keeley Award for Humanities in Medicine to an outstanding Medical Student at Virginia Tech-Carilion School of Medicine.

Richard Wing

![Dr. Richard Wing has been a TB advocate and champion for the last 18
years](/tb/worldtbday/images/richardwing-champions.jpg)Dr. Richard Wing has
been a TB advocate and champion for the last 18 years.  He has been the
consulting and treating TB physician for Region 11 Texas, which encompasses
the southern tip of the state. He also served as the consulting physician for
the TB Binational program, "Grupo Sin Fronteras." **** In 2015, he treated 158
confirmed TB cases in Texas. He provided consultation to 50 TB confirmed cases
through "Grupo Sin Fronteras," which included 12 multidrug-resistant TB cases.

Dr. Wing is first and foremost a patient advocate. He treats patients with
dignity and respect. He takes the time to show patients the disease in their
own chest x-ray.

It is known that Hispanics were under-represented in TB trial studies. Roughly
95-98% of all patients with TB in South Texas are Hispanic. Dr. Wing supported
and championed having clinical trials in this area. This inclusion of the
Hispanic population in TB studies can improve lives. It may also give
invaluable insight to better TB treatments.

Dr. Wing is a true champion for TB elimination in South Texas.

The Wisconsin State Laboratory of Hygiene Mycobacteriology Laboratory

![The Wisconsin State Laboratory of Hygiene \(WSLH\) Mycobacteriology
Laboratory ](/tb/worldtbday/images/wisconsin-champions.jpg)The Wisconsin State
Laboratory of Hygiene (WSLH) Mycobacteriology Laboratory serves as a primary
diagnostic facility and reference laboratory for clinicians and private
clinical mycobacteriology laboratories throughout the state. It is also a
public health laboratory that serves the Wisconsin Division of Public Health
(WDPH) TB Program and local public health agencies. WSLH offers a full
spectrum of mycobacteriology laboratory services, including PCR for direct
detection of _M. tuberculosis_ complex and _M. avium_ complex (MAC) from
clinical specimens. When PCR testing was introduced, WSLH collaborated with
the WDPH TB Program to establish guidelines, patient criteria, and specimen
collection. WSLH also worked with the WDPH TB Program on protocols to provide
fee-exempt PCR testing for Wisconsin patients suspected to have TB. PCR
testing has enabled WSLH to identify nearly 70% of pulmonary TB cases within
two days. Additionally, rapid identification of MAC allows patients to be
released from respiratory isolation, thus saving healthcare dollars.

WSLH has supported WDPH in the investigation and management of TB outbreaks.
In April 2013, active TB disease was diagnosed in a Hmong refugee in
northeastern Wisconsin by TB PCR. This patient had a large extended family,
and diagnosis had been delayed for many months. The household contact
investigation revealed several cases, including children. Within days, initial
molecular results predicted multidrug-resistant TB. Overall, the investigation
revealed 12 active cases of drug-resistant TB. Over 550 contacts were tested
at three medical facilities, two work sites, and four schools. WSLH supported
the WDPH TB Program during the outbreak by facilitating delivery of specimens
to the laboratory, providing prompt and accurate diagnostic and follow-up
testing. WSLH also referred specimens to CDC and National Jewish Advanced
Diagnostic Laboratories. WSLH provided routine updates on test status and
results and assisted with test interpretation.

At present, WSLH representatives continue to collaborate closely with the WDPH
TB Program. They discuss specific patient and program needs on a daily basis.
WSLH and the WDPH TB Program work together to provide state-wide,
multidisciplinary TB educational opportunities for laboratorians, nurse case
managers, clinicians, and infection control practitioners. The strong
relationship between WSLH and the WDPH TB Program is essential in the support
of TB treatment and control efforts in Wisconsin.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     * NextBuilding Partners...

Page last reviewed: March 23, 2016

Content source: Division of Tuberculosis Elimination

home Tuberculosis

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Basic TB Factsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * How TB Spreads
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Latent TB Infection and TB Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Risk Factors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Exposure to TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB & HIV Coinfection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB and Diabetes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Terms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Personal Storiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Kristi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Laura
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Kelcie
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tenzin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mildred
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Shaka
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Kelly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Kim
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Emily
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jerry
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Kate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nauman
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nicole
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Thomas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Natalie
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Esteban and Danielle
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Deo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Kenni
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Rosalie and Faith
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Rick and Francene
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Santos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mabruka
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Liliana
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Martha
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tri
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Sarah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Testing & Diagnosisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Who Should be Tested
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Testing for TB Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Testing in BCG-Vaccinated Persons
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Screening and Testing of Health Care Personnel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Testing During Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Diagnosing latent TB infection and TB disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Treatmentplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Deciding When to Treat Latent TB Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Treatment Regimens for Latent TB Infection (LTBI)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Treatment for TB Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Adverse Events
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Treatment of Persons Living with HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Treatment and Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Treatment for Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Drug-Resistant TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Researchplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Epidemiologic Studies Consortiumplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Research Projects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Publications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Trials Consortiumplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Study Descriptions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Background
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Behavioral & Social Science Research
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Care Settingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Infection Control in Health Care Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Resources for TB Screening and Testing of Health Care Personnelplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * TB in Specific Populationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * African-American Communityplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Stop TB in the African-American Community Summit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Background
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Slideset
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Asian Community
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Correctional Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Homelessness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * International Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Health Disparities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Laboratory Informationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Drug Susceptibility Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * False-Positive Investigation Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Interim Laboratory Biosafety Guidance for XDR _Mycobacterium_ tuberculosis strains
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Model Performance Evaluation Program (MPEP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Rapid Molecular Testing to Detect Drug-Resistant TB in the USplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Executive Summary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Introduction
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Background on Tests for Molecular Detection of DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * General Considerations and Principles for a Molecular DR Testing Service
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Possible Scenarios and Scope of Testing for a Molecular DR Testing Service
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Research Needs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * General Recommendations of the Expert Panel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Communication Plan for the Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Recommendations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * References
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Panel Members and CDC Participants
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Appendix 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Appendix 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Appendix 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Uses of Nucleic Acid Amplification Tests for the Diagnosis of TBplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * General Considerations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * General Recommendations of the Expert Panel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Recommendations to ACET, CDC, DTBE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Data & Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Incidence in the United States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Reported TB in the US, 2018 Surveillance Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Trends in Tuberculosis 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tuberculosis in the United States, 2018 (Slide Set)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Archived Surveillance Reports and Slide Sets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2018 State and City Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Archived State and City Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Professional Resources & Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tools for Healthcare Providersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Interactive Core Curriculum on Tuberculosis: What the Clinician Should Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Resources for TB Programsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Centers of Excellence 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Publications & Productsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Patient and Public Materials
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Fact Sheetsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * General
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data & Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Drug-Resistant TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Infection Control & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB in Specific Populations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Testing & Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Vaccines & Immunizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidelinesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Contact Investigations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Control & Elimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Drug-Resistant TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Genotyping
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Infection Control & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Laboratory
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB & HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB in Specific Populations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Testing & Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Vaccines & Immunizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Guidelines by Date
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guides & Toolkitsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Aggregate Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TB Surveillance Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Core Curriculum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Effective TB Interviewing for Contact Investigation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Ethnographic Guides
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * False-Positive Investigation Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Forging Partnerships to Eliminate TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Guide to Application of Genotyping
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LTBI: A Guide for Primary Health Care Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Mantoux Tuberculin Skin Testing Products
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Report of Verified Case of Tuberculosis (RVCT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Self-Study Modules
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Contact Investigation Interviewing Skills Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB eDOT Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Understanding the TB Cohort Review Process
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Newslettersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 4, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 3, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 2, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 1, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 6, 2018Â 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 5, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 4, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 3, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 2, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 1, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 5, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 4, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 3, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 2, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 1, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 5, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 4, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 3, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 2, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 1, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Pamphlets, Brochures, Bookletsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Questions and Answers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Patient Education Series
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tuberculosis â Get the Facts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tuberculosis â The Connection between TB and HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 12-Dose Regimen for Latent TB Infection-Patient Education Brochure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Postersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Mantoux Tuberculin Skin Test Wall Chart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * World TB Day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Think TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Stop TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Reports & Articlesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Reports (MMWRs)_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * DTBE Authored Journal Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tuberculosis Laboratory Aggregate Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Slide Setsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Epidemiology of Tuberculosis Among Non-U.S.ââBorn Persons in the United States, 1993â2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Self-Study Modules on Tuberculosis, 1-5 Slide Sets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Tuberculosis (TB) in Correctional Settingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facilitator Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Introduction to TB Genotyping
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Core Curriculum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Epidemiology of Tuberculosis in Correctional Facilities, United States, 1993-2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Prevention and Control of Tuberculosis in Correctional and Detention Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Guidelines for Preventing the Transmission of M. TB in Health care Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Investigation of Contacts of Persons with Infectious TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Epidemiology of Pediatric Tuberculosis in the United States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Targeted Tuberculosis Testing and Treatment of Latent Tuberculosis Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Electronic Tools & Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Web-Based Courses & Webinarsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB 101 for Health Care Workersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB 101
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Interactive Core Curriculum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Program Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Content Syndication
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Infographicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Social Media Graphics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Customizable Take on TB Infographic with Instructions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Events
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * World TB Dayplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * U.S. TB Championsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2020 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2019 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2018 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2017 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2016 Supporting TB Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2016 Building Partnerships
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2016 Expanding Testing and Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2016 Focusing on Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2016 Maximizing Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Activities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Linksplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * State TB Control Offices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * About Usplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mission Statement and Activitiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * DTBE Strategic Plan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * National TB Program Objectives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Organization Chart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Advisory Groupsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Federal TB Task Force

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[GATS]: Global Adult Tobacco Survey
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[17 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[19 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 5:00 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 1:27 PM

