Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001185.htm    
                                Description: Anorchia is the absence of both testes at birth.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Anorchia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001185.htm

# Anorchia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Anorchia is the absence of both testes at birth.

## Causes

The embryo develops early sex organs in the first several weeks of pregnancy.
In some cases, early testes do not develop in males before 8 weeks into the
pregnancy. These babies will be born with female sex organs.

In some cases, the testes disappear between 8 and 10 weeks. These babies will
be born with ambiguous genitalia. This means the child will have parts of both
male and female sex organs.

In some cases, the testes may disappear between 12 and 14 weeks. These babies
will have normal penis and scrotum. However, they will not have any testes.
This is known as congenital anorchia. It is also called the "vanishing testes
syndrome."

The cause is unknown. Genetic factors may be involved in some cases.

This condition should not be confused with bilateral undescended testes, in
which the testes are located in the abdomen or groin rather than the scrotum.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

    * Normal outside genitals before puberty
    * Failure to start puberty at the correct time

## Exams and Tests

Signs include:

    * Empty scrotum
    * Lack of male sex characteristics (penis and pubic hair growth, deepening of the voice, and increase in muscle mass) 

Tests include:

    * Anti-MÃ¼llerian hormone levels
    * Bone density
    * Follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH)Â levels
    * Surgery to look for male reproductive tissue
    * Testosterone levels (low)
    * Ultrasound or MRI to look for testes in the abdomen
    * XY karyotype

## Treatment

Treatment includes:

    * Artificial (prosthetic) testicle implants 
    * Male hormones (androgens)
    * Psychological support

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outlook is good with treatment.

## Possible Complications

Complications include:

    * Face, neck, or back abnormalities in some cases
    * Infertility
    * Psychological issues due to gender identification 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if a male child:

    * Appears to have extremely small or absent testicles 
    * Does not seem to be starting puberty during his early teens

## Alternative Names

Vanishing testes - anorchia; Empty scrotum - anorchia; Scrotum - empty
(anorchia)

## Images

    * ![Male reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1113t.jpg)Male reproductive anatomy
    * ![Male reproductive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9658t.jpg)Male reproductive system

## References

Achermann JC, Hughes IA. Pediatric disorders of sex development. In: Melmed S,
Polonsky KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of
Endocrinology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 23.

Ali O, Donohoue PA. Hypofunction of the testes. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF,
St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 583.

Diamond DA, Yu RN. Disorders of sexual development: etiology, evaluation, and
medical management. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds.
_Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 150.

## Review Date 7/17/2018

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Testicular
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TesticularDisorders_thumb.jpg)Testicular
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

