Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001284.htm    
                                Description: A varicocele is the swelling of the veins inside the scrotum. These veins are found along the cord that holds up a man    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Varicocele

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001284.htm

# Varicocele

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A varicocele is the swelling of the veins inside the scrotum. These veins are
found along the cord that holds up a man's testicles (spermatic cord).

## Causes

A varicocele forms when valves inside the veins that run along the spermatic
cord prevent blood from flowing properly. Blood backs up, leading to swelling
and widening of the veins. (This is similar to varicose veins in the legs.)

Most of the time, varicoceles develop slowly. They are more common in men ages
15 to 25 and are most often seen on the left side of the scrotum.

A varicocele in an older man that appears suddenly may be caused by a kidney
tumor, which can block blood flow to a vein.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

    * Enlarged, twisted veins in the scrotum
    * Dull ache or discomfort  

    * Painless testicle lump, scrotal swelling, or bulge in the scrotum
    * Possible problems with fertility or decreased sperm count

Some men do not have symptoms.

## Exams and Tests

You will have an exam of your groin area, including the scrotum and testicles.
The health care provider may feel a twisted growth along the spermatic cord.

Sometimes the growth may not be able to be seen or felt, especially when you
are lying down.

The testicle on the side of the varicocele may be smaller than the one on the
other side.

You may also have an ultrasound of the scrotum and testicles, as well as an
ultrasound of the kidneys.

## Treatment

A jock strap or snug underwear may help ease discomfort. You may need other
treatment if the pain does not go away or you develop other symptoms.

Surgery to correct a varicocele is called varicocelectomy. For this procedure:

    * You will receive some form of anesthesia. 
    * The urologist will make a cut, most often in the lower abdomen, and tie off the abnormal veins. This directs blood flow in the area to the normal veins. The operation may also be done as a laparoscopic procedure (through small incisions with a camera).
    * You will be able to leave the hospital on the same day as your surgery.
    * You will need to keep an ice pack on the area for the first 24 hours after surgery to reduce swelling.

An alternative to surgery is varicocele embolization. For this procedure:

    * A small hollow tube called a catheter (tube) is placed into a vein in your groin or neck area.
    * The provider moves the tube into the varicocele using x-rays as a guide. 
    * A tiny coil passes through the tube into the varicocele. The coil blocks blood flow to the bad vein and sends it to normal veins.
    * You will need to keep an ice pack on the area to reduce swelling and wear a scrotal support for a little while.

This method is also done without an overnight hospital stay. It uses a much
smaller cut than surgery, so you will heal faster.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

A varicocele is often harmless and often does not need to be treated, unless
there is a change in the size of your testicle or a problem with fertility.

If you have surgery, your sperm count will likely increase and it may improve
your fertility. In most cases, testicular wasting (atrophy) does not improve
unless surgery is done early in adolescence.

## Possible Complications

Infertility is a complication of varicocele.

Complications from treatment may include:

    * Atrophic testis
    * Blood clot formation
    * Infection
    * Injury to the scrotum or nearby blood vessel

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you discover a testicle lump or need to treat a
diagnosed varicocele.

## Alternative Names

Varicose veins - scrotum

## Images

    * ![Varicocele](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19472t.jpg)Varicocele
    * ![Male reproductive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9658t.jpg)Male reproductive system

## References

Barak S, Gordon Baker HW. Clinical management of male infertility. In: Jameson
JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and
Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 141.

Goldstein M. Surgical management of male infertility. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi
LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 25.

Palmer LS, Palmer JS. Management of abnormalities of the external genitalia in
boys. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh
Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 146.

Silay MS, Hoen L, Quadackaers J, et al. Treatment of varicocele in children
and adolescents: A systematic review and meta-analysis from the European
Association of Urology/European Society for Paediatric Urology Guidelines
Panel. _Eur Urol_. 2019;75(3):448-461. PMID: 30316583
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30316583.

## Review Date 7/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Testicular
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TesticularDisorders_thumb.jpg)Testicular
Disorders _Read more_

![Varicose
Veins](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VaricoseVeins_thumb.jpg)Varicose Veins
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

