Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002994.htm    
                                Description: Testicular torsion repair is surgery to untangle or untwist a spermatic cord. The spermatic cord has a collection of blood vessels in the scrotum that lead to the testicles. Testicular torsion develops    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Testicular torsion repair

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002994.htm

# Testicular torsion repair

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Testicular torsion repair is surgery to untangle or untwist a spermatic cord.
The spermatic cord has a collection of blood vessels in the scrotum that lead
to the testicles. Testicular torsion develops when the cord twists. This
pulling and twisting blocks blood flow to the testicle.

## Description

Most of the time, you will get general anesthesia for testicular torsion
repair surgery. This will make you asleep and pain-free.

To perform the procedure:

    * The surgeon will make a cut in your scrotum to get to the twisted cord. 
    * The cord will be untwisted. The surgeon will then attach the testicle to the inside of your scrotum using stitches. 
    * The other testicle will be attached in the same way to prevent future problems. 

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Testicular torsion is an emergency. In most cases, surgery is needed right
away to relieve pain and swelling and to prevent the loss of the testicle. For
the best results, surgery should be done within 4 hours after symptoms begin.
By 12 hours, a testicle may become damaged so badly that it has to be removed.

## Risks

Risks of this surgery are:

    * Bleeding
    * Infection
    * Pain
    * Wasting away of the testicle despite the return of blood flow
    * Infertility  

## Before the Procedure

Most of the time, this surgery isÂ done as an emergency, so there is often too
little time to have medical tests beforehand. You may have an imaging test
(most often ultrasound) to check for blood flow and tissue death.

Most of the time, you will be given pain medicine and sent to a urologist for
surgery as soon as possible.

## After the Procedure

Following your surgery:

    * Pain medicine, rest, and ice packs will relieve pain and swelling after surgery.
    * Do not put the ice directly on your skin. Wrap it in a towel or cloth.
    * Rest at home for several days. You may wear a scrotal support for a week after surgery.
    * Avoid strenuous activity for 1 to 2 weeks. Slowly start doing your normal activities.
    * You may resume sexual activity after about 4 to 6 weeks.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

If surgery is done in time, you should have a complete recovery. When it is
done within 4 hours after symptoms begin, the testicle can be saved most of
the time.

If one testicle has to be removed, the remaining healthy testicle should
provide enough hormones for normal male growth, sex life, and fertility.

## Patient Instructions

    * Surgical wound care - open

## Images

    * ![Male reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1113t.jpg)Male reproductive anatomy
    * ![Testicular torsion repair - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19120t.jpg)Testicular torsion repair - series

## References

Elder JS. Disorders and anomalies of the scrotal contents. In: Kliegman RM,
St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 560.

Goldstein M. Surgical management of male infertility. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi
LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 25.

McCollough M, Rose E. Genitourinary and renal tract disorders. In: Walls RM,
Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and
Clinical Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 173.

Smith TG, Coburn M. Urologic surgery. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers
BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 72.

## Review Date 7/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Testicular
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TesticularDisorders_thumb.jpg)Testicular
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

