Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003909.htm    
                                Description: Testicular self-exam is an examination of the testicles that you do on yourself.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Testicular self-exam

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003909.htm

# Testicular self-exam

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Testicular self-exam is an examination of the testicles that you do on
yourself.

## How the Test is Performed

The testicles (also called the testes) are the male reproductive organs that
produce sperm and the hormone testosterone. They are located in the scrotum
under the penis.

You can do this test during or after a shower. This way, the scrotal skin is
warm and relaxed. It is best to do the test while standing.

    * Gently feel your scrotal sac to locate a testicle.
    * Use one hand to stabilize the testicle. Use your fingers and thumb of the other hand to firmly but gently feel the testicle. Feel the entire surface.
    * Check the other testicle in the same way. 

## Why the Test is Performed

A testicular self-exam is done to check for testicular cancer.

Testicles have blood vessels and other structures that can make the exam
confusing. If you notice any lumps or changes in a testicle, contact your
health care provider right away.

Your provider may recommend that you do a testicular self-exam every month if
you have any of the following risk factors:

    * Family history of testicular cancer
    * Past testicular tumor
    * Undescended testicle

However, if a man has no risk factors or symptoms, experts do not know if
doing testicular self-exam lowers the chance of dying of this cancer.

## Normal Results

Each testicle should feel firm, but not rock hard. One testicle may be lower
or slightly larger than the other.

Talk to your provider if you have questions.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

If you find a small, hard lump (like a pea), have an enlarged testicle, or
notice any other differences that do not seem normal, see your provider right
away.

Call your provider if:

    * You cannot find one or both testicles. The testicles may not have descended properly in the scrotum.
    * There is a soft collection of thin tubes above the testicle. This may be a collection of widened veins (varicocele).
    * You have pain or swelling in the scrotum. This may be an infection or a fluid-filled sac (hydrocele) causing a blockage of blood flow to the area.Â It may be difficult to feel the testicle if there is fluid in the scrotum.

Sudden, severe (acute) pain in the scrotum or testicle that lasts for more
than a few minutes is an emergency. If you have this type of pain, seek
medical attention right away.

A lump in the testicle is often the first sign of testicular cancer. If you
find a lump, see a provider right away. Most testicular cancers are very
treatable. Keep in mind that some cases of testicular cancer do not show
symptoms until they reach an advanced stage.

## Risks

There are no risks with this self-exam.

## Alternative Names

Screening - testicular cancer - self-exam; Testicular cancer - screening -
self-exam

## Images

    * ![Male reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1113t.jpg)Male reproductive anatomy
    * ![Testicular anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8962t.jpg)Testicular anatomy

## References

American Cancer Society website. Can testicular cancer be found early?
www.cancer.org/cancer/testicular-cancer/detection-diagnosis-
staging/detection.html. Updated May 17, 2018. Accessed August 22, 2019.

Friedlander TW, Small E. Testicular cancer. In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO,
Kastan MB, Doroshow JH, Tepper JE, eds. _Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 83.

National Cancer Institute website. Testicular cancer screening (PDQ) â
health professional version. www.cancer.gov/types/testicular/hp/testicular-
screening-pdq. Updated March 6, 2019. Accessed August 22, 2019.

US Preventive Services Task Force. Screening for testicular cancer: US
Preventive Services Task Force reaffirmation recommendation statement. _Ann
Intern Med_. 2011;154(7):483-486. PMID: 21464350
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21464350.

## Review Date 7/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Testicular
Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TesticularCancer_thumb.jpg)Testicular
Cancer _Read more_

![Testicular
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TesticularDisorders_thumb.jpg)Testicular
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

