Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003002.htm    
                                Description: Undescended testicle repair is surgery to correct testicles that have not dropped down into the correct position in the scrotum.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Undescended testicle repair

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003002.htm

# Undescended testicle repair

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Undescended testicle repair is surgery to correct testicles that have not
dropped down into the correct position in the scrotum.

## Description

The testicles develop in the infant's abdomen as the baby grows in the womb.
They drop down into the scrotum in the last months before birth.

In some cases, one or both testicles do not drop into the correct position.
About one half of these cases will descend within the first year of life
without treatment.

Undescended testicle repair surgery is recommended for males whose testicles
do not descend on their own.

The surgery is done while the child is asleep (unconscious) and pain-free
under general anesthesia. The surgeon makes a cut in the groin. This is where
most undescended testes are located.

After finding the cord that holds the testis in the scrotum, the surgeon
unties it from the tissue around it. This allows the cord to extend to its
full length. A small cut is made in the scrotum, and a pouch is created. The
testicle is pulled down into the scrotum, and stitched into place. Stitches
are used to close the surgical cuts.

In some cases, the procedure can be done laparoscopically. This involves
smaller surgical cuts.

When the testicle is located very high, correction may require two stages.
Separate surgeries are done several months apart.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

This surgery is recommended for infants older than 1 year whose testicles have
not descended into the scrotum (cryptorchidism).

An undescended testicle is different from a "retractile" testicle. In this
condition, the testicle drops into the scrotum and then pulls back. Retractile
testicles do not need surgery.

## Risks

Risks for any anesthesia are:

    * Reactions to medicines
    * Problems breathing

Risks for any surgery are:

    * Bleeding
    * Infection

Risks for this surgery include:

    * Shrinkage of the testicle or failure of the testicle to grow to normal size.
    * Inability to bring the testicle into the scrotum, resulting in the removal of the testicle.

## After the Procedure

Undescended testicle repair is successful in most cases. A small percentage of
men will have fertility problems.

Men who have had undescended testicles should do monthly self-exams for the
rest of their lives to look for possible tumors. Men with undescended testes
have higher rates of testicular cancer than those with normal testicle
development, even if they have a fully descended testicle on the other side.
There is also a higher risk for testicular cancer in the other testicle that
descended normally. Bringing the testicles down will make it easier to monitor
for tumor growth in the future.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The surgery may be done on an outpatient basis. Bed rest is recommended for
the first 2Â to 3 days. Avoid strenuous activity, including bicycling, for at
least 1 month.

## Alternative Names

Orchidopexy; Inguinal orchidopexy; Orchiopexy; Repair of undescended testicle;
Cryptorchidism repair

## Images

    * ![Male reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1113t.jpg)Male reproductive anatomy
    * ![Before and after testicular repair](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9998t.jpg)Before and after testicular repair

## References

Barthold JS, Hagerty JA. Etiology, diagnosis, and management of the
undescended testis. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds.
_Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 148.

Elder JS. Disorders and anomalies of the scrotal contents. In: Kliegman RM,
Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 545.

Srinivasan A, Ghanaat M. Laparoscopic orchiopexy. In: Bishoff JT, Kavoussi LR,
eds. _Atlas of Laparoscopic and Robotic Urologic Surgery_. 3rd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 42.

## Review Date 1/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Testicular
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TesticularDisorders_thumb.jpg)Testicular
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

