Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003709.htm    
                                Description: LH response to GnRH is a blood test to help determine if your pituitary gland can correctly respond to gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH). LH stands for luteinizing hormone.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

LH response to GnRH blood test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003709.htm

# LH response to GnRH blood test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

LH response to GnRH is a blood test to help determine if your pituitary gland
can correctly respond to gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH). LH stands for
luteinizing hormone.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is taken, and then you are given a shot of GnRH. After a
specified time,Â more blood samples are taken so that LH can be measured.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is necessary.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or a slight bruise. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

GnRH is a hormone made by the hypothalamus gland. LH is made by the pituitary
gland. GnRH causes (stimulates) the pituitary gland to release LH.

This test is used to tell the difference between primary and secondary
hypogonadism. Hypogonadism is a condition in which the sex glands make little
or no hormones. In men, the sex glands (gonads) are the testes. In women, the
sex glands are the ovaries.

Depending on the type of hypogonadism:

    * Primary hypogonadism starts in the testicle or ovary
    * Secondary hypogonadism starts in the hypothalamus or pituitary gland

This test may also be done to check:

    * Low testosterone level in men
    * Low estradiol level in women

## Normal Results

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your health care
provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An increased LH response suggests a problem in the ovaries or testes.

A reduced LH response suggests a problem with the hypothalamus gland or
pituitary gland.

Abnormal results may also be due to:

    * Pituitary gland problems, such as release of too much hormone (hyperprolactinemia) 
    * Large pituitary tumors
    * Decrease in hormones made by the endocrine glands
    * Too much iron in the body (hemochromatosis) 
    * Eating disorders, such as anorexia
    * Recent significant weight loss, such as after bariatric surgery 
    * Delayed or absent puberty (Kallmann syndrome) 
    * Lack of periods in women (amenorrhea) 
    * Obesity 

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another and from one side of the body to the
other. Taking blood from some people may be more difficult than from others.

Other risks related to having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

## Alternative Names

Luteinizing hormone response to gonadotropin-releasing hormone

## References

Guber HA, Farag AF. Evaluation of endocrine function. In: McPherson RA, Pincus
MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_.
23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 24.

Haisenleder DJ, Marshall JC. Gonadotropins: regulation of synthesis and
secretion. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds.
_Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 116.

## Review Date 6/30/2019

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Endocrine
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EndocrineDiseases_thumb.jpg)Endocrine
Diseases _Read more_

![Testicular
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TesticularDisorders_thumb.jpg)Testicular
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

