Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000973.htm    
                                Description: Undescended testicle occurs when one or both testicles fail to move into the scrotum before birth.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Undescended testicle

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000973.htm

# Undescended testicle

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Undescended testicle occurs when one or both testicles fail to move into the
scrotum before birth.

## Causes

Most of the time, a boy's testicles descend by the time he is 9 months old.
Undescended testicles are common in infants who are born early. The problem
occurs less in full-term infants.

Some babies have a condition called retractile testes and the health care
provider may not be able to find the testicles. In this case, the testicle is
normal, but is pulled back out of the scrotum by a muscle reflex. This occurs
because the testicles are still small before puberty. The testicles will
descend normally at puberty and surgery is not needed.

Testicles that do not naturally descend into the scrotum are considered
abnormal. An undescended testicle is more likely to develop cancer, even if it
is brought into the scrotum with surgery. Cancer is also more likely in the
other testicle.

Bringing the testicle into the scrotum can improve sperm production and
increase the chances of good fertility. It also allows the provider to do an
exam for the early detection of cancer.

In other cases, no testicle may be found, even during surgery. This may be due
to a problem that occurred while the baby was still developing before birth.

## Symptoms

Most of the time there are no symptoms other than the absence of the testicle
in the scrotum. (This is called an empty scrotum.)

## Exams and Tests

An exam by the provider confirms that one or both of the testicles are not in
the scrotum.

The provider may or may not be able to feel the undescended testicle in the
abdominal wall above the scrotum.

Imaging tests, such as an ultrasound or CT scan, may be done.

## Treatment

In most cases, the testicle will descend without treatment during the child's
first year. If this does not occur, treatment may include:

    * Hormone injections (B-HCG or testosterone) to try to bring the testicle into the scrotum.
    * Surgery (orchiopexy) to bring the testicle into the scrotum. This is the main treatment. 

Having surgery early may prevent damage to the testicles and avoid
infertility. An undescended testicle that is found later in life may need to
be removed. This is because the testicle is not likely to function well and
could pose a risk for cancer.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most of the time, the problem goes away without treatment. Medicine or surgery
to correct the condition is successful in most cases. Once the condition is
corrected, you should have routine testicle exams by your doctor.

In about 50% of males with undescended testicles, the testicles cannot be
found at the time of surgery. This is called a vanished or absent testis. As
stated earlier, it may be due to something while the baby was still developing
during pregnancy.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Damage to the testicle from surgery
    * Infertility later in life
    * Testicular cancer in one or both testes

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your child's provider if he appears to have an undescended testicle.

## Alternative Names

Cryptorchidism; Empty scrotum - undescended testes; Scrotum - empty
(undescended testes); Monorchism; Vanished testes - undescended; Retractile
testes

## Images

    * ![Male reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1113t.jpg)Male reproductive anatomy
    * ![Male reproductive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9658t.jpg)Male reproductive system

## References

Barthold JS, Hagerty JA. Etiology, diagnosis, and management of the
undescended testis. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds.
_Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 148.

Chung DH. Pediatric surgery. In: Townsend CM, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox
KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 66.

Elder JS. Disorders and anomalies of the scrotal contents. In: Kliegman RM,
St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 560.

Meyts ER-D, Main KM, Toppari J, Skakkebaek NE. Testicular dysgenesis syndrome,
cryptorchidism, hypospadias, and testicular tumors. In: Jameson JL, De Groot
LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 137.

## Review Date 7/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Testicular
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TesticularDisorders_thumb.jpg)Testicular
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

