Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003780.htm    
                                Description: Scrotal ultrasound is an imaging test that looks at the scrotum. It is the flesh-covered sac that hangs between the legs at the base of the penis and contains the testicles.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Scrotal ultrasound

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003780.htm

# Scrotal ultrasound

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Scrotal ultrasound is an imaging test that looks at the scrotum. It is the
flesh-covered sac that hangs between the legs at the base of the penis and
contains the testicles.

The testicles are the male reproductive organs that produce sperm and the
hormone testosterone. They are located in the scrotum, along with other small
organs, blood vessels, and a small tube called the vas deferens.

## How the Test is Performed

You lie on your back with your legs spread. The health care provider drapes a
cloth across your thighs under the scrotum or applies wide strips of adhesive
tape to the area. The scrotal sac will be slightly raised with the testicles
lying side by side.

A clear gel is applied to the scrotal sac to help transmit the sound waves. A
handheld probe (the ultrasound transducer) is then moved over the scrotum by
the technologist. The ultrasound machine sends out high-frequency sound waves.
These waves reflect off areas in the scrotum to create a picture.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is needed for this test.

## How the Test will Feel

There is little discomfort. The conducting gel may feel slightly cold and wet.

## Why the Test is Performed

A testicle ultrasound is done to:

    * Help determine why one or both testicles have become larger
    * Look at a mass or lump in one or both of the testicles
    * Find the reason for pain in the testicles
    * Show how blood flows through the testicles 

## Normal Results

The testicles and other areas in the scrotum appear normal.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Possible causes of abnormal results include:

    * Collection of very small veins, called a varicocele
    * Infection or abscess
    * Noncancerous (benign) cyst
    * Twisting of the testicle that blocks blood flow, called testicular torsion
    * Testicular tumor

## Risks

There are no known risks. You will not be exposed to radiation with this test.

## Considerations

In certain cases, Doppler ultrasound may help identify blood flow inside the
scrotum. This method can be helpful in cases of testicular torsion, because
blood flow to the twisted testicle may be reduced.

## Alternative Names

TesticularÂ ultrasound; Testicular sonogram

## Images

    * ![Male reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1113t.jpg)Male reproductive anatomy
    * ![Testicular ultrasound](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9963t.jpg)Testicular ultrasound

## References

Gilbert BR, Fulgham PF. Urinary tract imaging: basic principles of urologic
ultrasonography. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds.
_Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 3.

Shaida N, Berman L. Male genitourinary tract. In: Adam A, Dixon AK, Gillard
JH, Schaefer-Prokop CM, eds. _Grainger & Allison's Diagnostic Radiology: A
Textbook of Medical Imaging_. 6th ed. New York, NY: Elsevier Churchill
Livingstone; 2015:chap 40.

Sommers D, Winter T. The scrotum. In: Rumack CM, Levine D, eds. _Diagnostic
Ultrasound_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 22.

## Review Date 4/1/2018

Updated by: Jason Levy, MD, Northside Radiology Associates, Atlanta, GA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Testicular
Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TesticularCancer_thumb.jpg)Testicular
Cancer _Read more_

![Testicular
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TesticularDisorders_thumb.jpg)Testicular
Disorders _Read more_

![Ultrasound](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Ultrasound3_thumb.jpg)Ultrasound
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

