Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001283.htm    
                                Description: A scrotal mass is a lump or bulge that can be felt in the scrotum. The scrotum is the sac that contains the testicles.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Scrotal masses

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001283.htm

# Scrotal masses

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A scrotal mass is a lump or bulge that can be felt in the scrotum. The scrotum
is the sac that contains the testicles.

## Causes

A scrotal mass can be noncancerous (benign) or cancerous (malignant).

Benign scrotal masses include:

    * Hematocele -- blood collection in the scrotum
    * Hydrocele \-- fluid collection in the scrotum
    * Spermatocele -- a cyst-like growth in the scrotum that contains fluid and sperm cells
    * Varicocele \-- a varicose vein along the spermatic cord
    * Epididymal cyst -- a swelling in the duct behind the testes that transports sperm
    * Scrotal abscess -- a collection of pus within the wall of the scrotum 

Scrotal masses can be caused by:

    * Abnormal bulge in the groin (inguinal hernia)
    * Diseases such as epididymitis or orchitis
    * Injury to the scrotum
    * Testicular torsion
    * Tumors
    * Infections 

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

    * Enlarged scrotum
    * Painless or painful testicle lump

## Exams and Tests

During a physical exam, the health care provider may feel a growth in the
scrotum. This growth may:

    * Feel tender
    * Be smooth, twisted, or irregular
    * Feel liquid, firm, or solid
    * Be only on one side of the body 

The inguinal lymph nodes in the groin on the same side as the growth may be
enlarged or tender.

The following tests may be done:

    * Biopsy
    * Urine culture
    * Ultrasound of the scrotum

## Treatment

A provider should evaluate all scrotal masses. However, many types of masses
are harmless and do not need to be treated unless you are having symptoms.

In some cases, the condition may improve with self-care, antibiotics, or pain
relievers. You need to get medical attention right away for a growth in the
scrotum that is painful.

If the scrotal mass is part of the testicle, it has a higher risk of being
cancerous. Surgery may be needed to remove the testicle if this is the case.

A jock strap or scrotal support may help relieve the pain or discomfort from
the scrotal mass. A hematocele, hydrocele, spermatocele, or scrotal abscess
may sometimes need surgery to remove the collection of blood, fluid, pus or
dead cells.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most conditions that cause scrotal masses can be easily treated. Even
testicular cancer has a high cure rate if found and treated early.

Have your provider examine any scrotal growth as soon as possible.

## Possible Complications

Complications depend on the cause of the scrotal mass.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you find a lump or bulge in your scrotum. Any new growth
in the testicle or scrotum needs to be checked by your provider to determine
if it may be testicular cancer.

## Prevention

You can prevent scrotal masses caused by sexually transmitted diseases by
practicing safe sex.

To prevent scrotal masses caused by injury, wear an athletic cup during
exercise.

## Alternative Names

Testicular mass; Scrotal growth

## Images

    * ![Hydrocele](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19667t.jpg)Hydrocele
    * ![Spermatocele](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19692t.jpg)Spermatocele
    * ![Male reproductive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9658t.jpg)Male reproductive system
    * ![Scrotal mass](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9873t.jpg)Scrotal mass

## References

Germann CA, Holmes JA. Selected urologic disorders. In: Walls RM, Hockberger
RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 89.

O'Connell TX. Scrotal masses. In: O'Connell TX, ed. _Instant Work-ups: A
Clinical Guide to Medicine_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 66.

Sommers D, Winter T. The scrotum. In: Rumack CM, Levine D, eds. _Diagnostic
Ultrasound_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 22.

## Review Date 7/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Testicular
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TesticularDisorders_thumb.jpg)Testicular
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

