Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003753.htm    
                                Description: Endocervical Gram stain is a method to detect bacteria on tissue from the cervix. This is done using a special series of stains.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Endocervical Gram stain

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003753.htm

# Endocervical Gram stain

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Endocervical Gram stain is a method to detect bacteria on tissue from the
cervix. This is done using a special series of stains.

## How the Test is Performed

This test requires a sample of secretions from the lining of the cervical
canal (the opening to the uterus).

You lie on your back with your feet in stirrups. The health care provider will
insert an instrument called a speculum into the vagina. This instrument is
used during regular female pelvic exams. It opens the vagina to better view
certain pelvic structures.

After the cervix is cleaned, a dry, sterile swab is inserted through the
speculum to the cervical canal and gently turned. It may be left in place for
a few seconds to absorb as many germs as possible.

The swab is removed and sent to a laboratory, where it will be smeared on a
slide. A series of stains called a Gram stain is applied to the sample. A
laboratory technician looks at the stained smear under the microscope for the
presence of bacteria. The color, size, and shape of the cells help identify
the type of bacteria.

## How to Prepare for the Test

DO NOT douche for 24 hours before the procedure.

## How the Test will Feel

You may feel minor discomfort during specimen collection. This procedure feels
very much like a routine Pap smear.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is used to detect and identify abnormal bacteria in the cervix area.
If you develop signs of an infection or think that you have a sexually
transmitted disease (such as gonorrhea), this test can help confirm the
diagnosis. It can also identify the germ that is causing the infection.

This test is rarely done because it has been replaced with more accurate ones.

## Normal Results

A normal result means no abnormal bacteria are seen in the sample.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your provider
about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal result may indicate:

    * Bacterial vaginosis
    * Chlamydia
    * Gonorrhea
    * Yeast infection

The test may also be performed for gonococcal arthritis, to determine the site
of the initial infection.

## Risks

There is virtually no risk.

## Considerations

If you have gonorrhea or another sexually transmitted disease, it is very
important that all of your sexual partners also receive treatment, even if
they have no symptoms.

## Alternative Names

Gram stain of cervix; Gram stain of cervical secretions

## References

Marrazzo JM, Apicella MA. _Neisseria gonorrhoeae_ (gonorrhea). In: Bennett JE,
Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and
Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 214.

McCormack WM, Augenbraun MH. Vulvovaginitis and cervicitis. In: Bennett JE,
Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and
Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 110.

Swygard H, Cohen MS. Approach to the patient with a sexually transmitted
infection. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 285.

## Review Date 10/8/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cervix
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CervixDisorder_thumb.jpg)Cervix
Disorders _Read more_

![Chlamydia
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Chlamydia_thumb.jpg)Chlamydia
Infections _Read more_

![Gonorrhea](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Gonorrhea2_thumb.jpg)Gonorrhea
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

