Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000660.htm    
                                Description: Chlamydia is an infectionÂ that can be passed from one person to another through sexual contact. This type of infection is known as sexually transmitted infection (STI).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Chlamydia infections in women

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000660.htm

# Chlamydia infections in women

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Chlamydia is an infectionÂ that can be passed from one person to another
through sexual contact. This type of infection is known as sexually
transmitted infection (STI).

## Causes

Chlamydia is caused by the bacteria _Chlamydia trachomatis._ Both males and
females may have this infection. However, they may not have symptoms. As a
result, you may become infected or pass the infection to your partner without
knowing it.

You are more likely to become infected with chlamydia if you have:

    * Sex without using a condom
    * Had multiple sexual partners
    * Been infected with chlamydia before 

## Symptoms

Most women do not have symptoms. But some have:

    * Burning when they urinate
    * Pain in the lower part of the belly, possibly with fever
    * Painful intercourse
    * Vaginal discharge or bleeding after intercourse 

## Exam and Tests

If you have symptoms of a chlamydia infection, your health care provider will
collect a culture or perform a test called a nucleic acid amplification test.

In the past, testing required a pelvic exam by a health care provider. Today,
very accurate tests can be done on urine samples. Vaginal swabs, which a woman
collects herself, can also be tested. Results take 1 to 2 days to come back.
Your provider may also check you for other types of STIs. Most common STIs
are:

    * Gonorrhea
    * HIV/AIDS
    * Syphilis
    * Hepatitis
    * Herpes

Even if you have no symptoms, you may need a chlamydia test if you:

    * Are 25 years old or younger and are sexually active (get tested every year)
    * Have a new sexual partner or more thanÂ one partner

## Treatment

Chlamydia can be treated with antibiotics. Some of these are safe to take if
you are pregnant. Common side effects include:

    * Nausea
    * Upset stomach
    * Diarrhea

Both you and your partner need to take the antibiotics.

    * Finish all of them, even if you feel better and still have some left.
    * All of your sexual partners should be treated. Have them take the medicines even if they do not have symptoms. This will prevent you from passing the STIs back and forth.

You and your partner are asked to abstain from sexual intercourse during the
time of treatment.

Gonorrhea often occurs with chlamydia. Therefore, treatment for gonorrhea is
often given at the same time.

Safe sex practices are needed to prevent becoming infected with chlamydia or
spreading it to others.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Antibiotic treatment almost always works. You and your partner should take the
medicines as directed.

If chlamydia spreads into your uterus and fallopian tubes, it can cause
scarring. Scarring can make it harder for you to get pregnant. You can help
prevent this by:

    * Finishing your antibiotics when you are treated
    * Making sure your sexual partners also take antibiotics
    * Talking to your provider about being tested for chlamydia and seeing your provider if you have symptoms
    * Wearing condoms and practicing safe sex

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Make an appointment with your provider if:

    * You have symptoms of chlamydia
    * You are worried that you might have chlamydia

## Alternative Names

Cervicitis - chlamydia; STI - chlamydia; STD - chlamydia; Sexually transmitted
- chlamydia; PID - chlamydia; Pelvic inflammatory disease - chlamydia

## Images

    * ![Female reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1112t.jpg)Female reproductive anatomy
    * ![Uterus](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19263t.jpg)Uterus
    * ![Antibodies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9069t.jpg)Antibodies

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Chlamydial infections in
adolescents and adults. www.cdc.gov/std/tg2015/chlamydia.htm. Updated June 4,
2015. Accessed May 4, 2018.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Recommendations for laboratory-
based detection of Chlamydia trachomatis and Neisseria gonorrhoeae, 2014.
_MMWR Recomm Rep_. 2014;63(RR-02):1-19. PMID: 24622331.
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24622331.

Geisler WM. Diagnosis and management of uncomplicated chlamydia trachomatis
infections in adolescents and adults: summary of evidence reviewed for the
2015 centers for disease control and prevention sexually transmitted diseases
treatment guidelines. _Clin Infect Dis_. 2015;(61):774-784. PMID: 26602617
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26602617.

Geisler WM. Diseases caused by chlamydiae. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 318.

LeFevre ML; US Preventive Services Task Force. Screening for chlamydia and
gonorrhea: US Preventive Services Task Force recommendation statement. _Ann
Intern Med_. 2014;161(12):902-910. PMID:
25243785.www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25243785.

Workowski KA, Bolan GA; Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Sexually
transmitted diseases treatment guidelines. 2015. _MMWR Recomm Rep_.
2015;64(RR-03):1-137. PMID: 26042815. www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26042815.

## Review Date 4/19/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Chlamydia
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Chlamydia_thumb.jpg)Chlamydia
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

