Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000659.htm    
                                Description: Chlamydia infection in males is an infection of the urethra. The urethra is the tube that drains urine from the bladder. It passes through the penis. This type of infection is passed fromÂ one person to    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Chlamydial infections - male

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000659.htm

# Chlamydial infections - male

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Chlamydia infection in males is an infection of the urethra. The urethra is
the tube that drains urine from the bladder. It passes through the penis. This
type of infection is passed fromÂ one person to another during sexual contact.

Related topics are:

    * Chlamydia
    * Chlamydia infections in women

## Causes

Chlamydia infection is caused by the bacteria _Chlamydia trachomatis_. Both
males and females may have chlamydia without having any symptoms. As a result,
you may become infected or pass the infection to your partner without knowing
it.

You are more likely to become infected with chlamydia if you:

    * Have sex without wearing a male or female condom
    * Have more thanÂ one sexual partner
    * Use drugs or alcohol and then have sex 

## Symptoms

Some common symptoms are:

    * Difficulty urinating, which includes painful urination or burning during urination
    * Discharge from the penis
    * Redness, swelling, or itching of the opening of the urethra at the tip of the penis
    * Swelling and tenderness of the testicles 

Chlamydia and gonorrhea often occur together. The symptoms of chlamydia
infection may be similar to symptoms of gonorrhea, but they continue even
after treatment for gonorrhea is finished.

## Exams and Tests

If you have symptoms of a chlamydia infection, the health care provider may
suggest a lab test called PCR. You provider will take a sample of discharge
from the penis. This discharge is sent to a lab to be tested. Results will
take 1 to 2 days to come back.

Your provider may also check you for other types of infections, such as
gonorrhea.

Men who do not have symptoms of a chlamydia infection may sometimes be tested.

## Treatment

Chlamydia can be treated with a variety of antibiotics. Common side effects of
these antibiotics are:

    * Nausea
    * Upset stomach
    * Diarrhea

You and your sexual partner must be treated to avoid passing the infections
back and forth. Even partners without symptoms need to be treated. You and
your partner should finish all of the antibiotics, even if you feel better.

Because gonorrhea often occurs with chlamydia, treatment for gonorrhea is
often given at the same time.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Treatment with antibiotics is almost always successful. If your symptoms do
not improve quickly, make sure you are also being treated forÂ gonorrhea and
other infections spread through sexual contact.

Severe infections or infections that are not treated quickly may rarely cause
scarring of the urethra. This problem can make it harder to pass urine, and
may require surgery.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of a chlamydia infection.

## Prevention

To prevent infection, practice safe sex. This means taking steps before and
during sex that can help prevent you from getting an infection, or from giving
one to your partner.

Before having sex:

    * Get to know your partner and discuss your sexual histories.
    * Don't feel forced into having sex.
    * Don't have sexual contact with anyone but your partner. 

Be sure that your sexual partner does not have any sexually transmitted
infection (STI). Before having sex with a new partner, each of you should get
screened for STIs. Share the test results with each other.

If you have an STI such as HIV or herpes, let any sexual partner know before
you have sex. Allow them to decide what to do. If you both agree to have
sexual contact, use latex or polyurethane condoms.

Remember to:

    * Use condoms for all vaginal, anal, and oral intercourse.
    * Make sure that the condom is in place from the beginning to the end of the sexual activity. Use it every time you have sex.
    * Keep in mind that STIs can be spread by contact with surrounding skin areas. A condom reduces your risk.Â 

Other tips include:

    * Use lubricants. They may help reduce the chance that a condom will break.
    * Use only water-based lubricants. Oil-based or petroleum-type lubricants can cause latex to weaken and tear.
    * Polyurethane condoms are less prone to breaking than latex condoms, but they cost more.
    * Using condoms with nonoxynol-9 (a spermicide) may increase the chance of HIV transmission.
    * Stay sober. Alcohol and drugs impair your judgment. When you are not sober, you might not choose your partner as carefully. You may also forget to use condoms, or use them incorrectly.

## Alternative Names

STD - chlamydia male; Sexually transmitted disease - chlamydia male;
Urethritis - chlamydia

## Images

    * ![Male reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1113t.jpg)Male reproductive anatomy

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Sexually transmitted diseases
treatment guidelines, 2015. www.cdc.gov/std/tg2015/. Updated January 25, 2017.
Accessed June 14, 2018.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Recommendations for the
laboratory-based detection of Chlamydia tracho-matis and Neisseria gonorrhoeae
2014. www.cdc.gov/mmwr/preview/mmwrhtml/rr6302a1.htm. Updated March 14, 2014.
Accessed June 14, 2018.

Geisler WM. Diseases caused by chlamydiae. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 318.

## Review Date 4/15/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Chlamydia
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Chlamydia_thumb.jpg)Chlamydia
Infections _Read more_

![Urethral
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UrethralDisorders_thumb.jpg)Urethral
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

