Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001345.htm    
                                Description: Chlamydia is an infection. It is caused by the bacteria Chlamydia trachomatis. It is most often spread through sexual contact.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Chlamydia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001345.htm

# Chlamydia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Chlamydia is an infection. It is caused by the bacteria _Chlamydia
trachomatis_. It is most often spread through sexual contact.

## Causes

Both males and females may have chlamydia. However, they may not have any
symptoms. As a result, you may become infected or pass the infection to your
partner without knowing it.

You are more likely to become infected with chlamydia if you:

    * Have sex without wearing a male or female condom
    * Have more than one sexual partner
    * Use drugs or alcohol and then have sex
    * Been infected with chlamydia before 

## Symptoms

In men, chlamydia may cause symptoms similar to gonorrhea. Symptoms may
include:

    * Burning feeling during urination
    * Discharge from the penis or rectum
    * Tenderness or pain in the testicles
    * Rectal discharge or pain 

Symptoms that may occur in women include:

    * Burning feeling during urination
    * Painful sexual intercourse
    * Rectal pain or discharge
    * Symptoms of pelvic inflammatory disease (PID), salpingitis (inflammation of the fallopian tubes), or liver inflammation similar to hepatitis
    * Vaginal discharge or bleeding after intercourse

## Exams and Tests

If you have symptoms of a chlamydia infection, your health care provider will
collect a culture or perform a test called a nucleic acid amplification test.

In the past, testing required an exam by a provider. Today, very accurate
tests can be done on urine samples. Results take 1 to 2 days to come back.
Your provider may also check if you have other types of sexually transmitted
infections (STIs). Common STIs are:

    * Gonorrhea
    * HIV
    * Syphilis
    * Hepatitis
    * Herpes

Even if you have no symptoms, you may need a chlamydia test if you:

    * Are 25 years old or younger and sexually active
    * Have a new sexual partner or more than one partner

## Treatment

The most common treatment for chlamydia is antibiotics.

Both you and your sexual partners must be treated. This will ensure that they
do not pass the infection back and forth. A person may become infected with
chlamydia many times.

You and your partner are asked to abstain from sexual intercourse during the
time of treatment.

A follow-up may be done in 4 weeks to see if the infection has been cured.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Antibiotic treatment almost always works. You and your partner should take the
medicines as directed.

If chlamydia spreads into your uterus, it can cause scarring. Scarring can
make it harder for you to get pregnant.

You can help prevent infection with chlamydia by:

    * Finishing your antibiotics when you are treated
    * Making sure your sexual partners also take antibiotics
    * Talking to your provider about being tested for chlamydia
    * Going to see your provider if you have symptoms
    * Wearing condoms and practicing safe sex

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of chlamydia.

Many people with chlamydia may not have symptoms. Therefore, sexually active
adults should be screened once in a while for the infection.

## Images

    * ![Antibodies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9069t.jpg)Antibodies

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Recommendations for laboratory-
based detection of Chlamydia trachomatis and Neisseria gonorrhoea -- 2014.
_MMWR Recomm Rep_. 2014;63(RR-02):1-19. PMID: 24622331
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24622331.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. 2015 Sexually Transmitted
Diseases Treatment Guidelines: Chlamydial infections in adolescents and
adults. www.cdc.gov/std/tg2015/chlamydia.htm. Updated June 4, 2015. Accessed
May 4, 2018.

Geisler WM. Diseases caused by chlamydiae. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 318.

LeFevre ML; US Preventive Services Task Force. Screening for chlamydia and
gonorrhea: US Preventive Services Task Force recommendation statement. _Ann
Intern Med_. 2014;161(12):902-910. PMID: 25243785
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25243785.

Workowski KA, Bolan GA; Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Sexually
transmitted diseases treatment guidelines, 2015. _MMWR Recomm Rep_.
2015;64(RR-03):1-137. PMID: 26042815 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26042815.

## Review Date 4/19/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Chlamydia
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Chlamydia_thumb.jpg)Chlamydia
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

