Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/syphilis-tests/    
                                Description: Syphilis tests are used to screen for and diagnose syphilis, a bacterial infection spread by sexual contact. Syphilis is easily treatable if found in the early stages of infection. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Syphilis Tests

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/syphilis-tests/

# Syphilis Tests

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What are syphilis tests?

Syphilis is one of the most common sexually transmitted diseases (STDs). It is
a bacterial infection spread through vaginal, oral, or anal sex with an
infected person. Syphilis develops in stages that can last for weeks, months,
or even years. The stages may be separated by long periods of apparent good
health.

Syphilis usually starts with a small, painless sore, called a chancre, on the
genitals, anus, or mouth. In the next stage, you may have flu-like symptoms
and/or a rash. Later stages of syphilis can damage the brain, heart, spinal
cord, and other organs. Syphilis tests can help diagnose syphilis in the early
stages of infection, when the disease is easiest to treat.

Other names: rapid plasma reagin (RPR), venereal disease Research laboratory
(VDRL), fluorescent treponemal antibody absorption (FTA-ABS) test,
agglutination assay (TPPA), darkfield microscopy

## What are they used for?

Syphilis tests are used to screen for and diagnose syphilis.

Screening tests for syphilis include:

    * **Rapid plasma reagin (RPR)** , a syphilis blood test that looks for antibodies to the syphilis bacteria. Antibodies are proteins made by the immune system to fight foreign substances, such as bacteria.
    * **Venereal disease research laboratory (VDRL)** test, which also checks for syphilis antibodies. A VDRL test can be done on blood or spinal fluid.

If a screening test comes back positive, you will need more testing to rule
out or confirm a syphilis diagnosis. Most of these follow up tests will also
look for syphilis antibodies. Sometimes, a healthcare provider will use a test
that looks for actual syphilis bacteria, instead of the antibodies. Tests that
look for the actual bacteria are used less often because they can only be done
in specialized labs by specially trained health care professionals.

## Why do I need a syphilis test?

You may need a syphilis test if your sexual partner has been diagnosed with
syphilis and/or you have symptoms of the disease. Symptoms usually appear
about two to three weeks after infection and include:

    * Small, painless sore (chancre) on the genitals, anus, or mouth
    * Rough, red rash, usually on the palms of the hands or the bottom of the feet
    * Fever
    * Headache
    * Swollen glands
    * Fatigue
    * Weight loss
    * Hair loss

Even if you don't have symptoms, you may need a test if you are at a higher
risk of infection. Risk factors include having:

    * Multiple sex partners
    * A partner with multiple sex partners
    * Unprotected sex (sex without using a condom)
    * An HIV/AIDS infection
    * Another sexually transmitted disease, such as gonorrhea

You may also need this test if you are pregnant. Syphilis can be passed from a
mother to her unborn baby. A syphilis infection can cause serious, and
sometimes deadly, complications to infants. The Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention recommends that all pregnant women get tested early in
pregnancy. Women who have risk factors for syphilis should be tested again in
the third trimester of pregnancy (28â32 weeks) and again at delivery.

## What happens during a syphilis test?

A syphilis test is usually in the form of a blood test. During a syphilis
blood test, a health care professional will take a blood sample from a vein in
your arm, using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a small amount
of blood will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel a little
sting when the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than five
minutes.

More advanced stages of syphilis can affect the brain and spinal cord. If your
symptoms show your disease might be in a more advanced stage, your health care
provider may order a syphilis test on your cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). CSF is a
clear liquid found in your brain and spinal cord.

For this test, your CSF will be collected through a procedure called a lumbar
puncture, also known as a spinal tap. During the procedure:

    * You will lie on your side or sit on an exam table.
    * A health care provider will clean your back and inject an anesthetic into your skin, so you won't feel pain during the procedure. Your provider may put a numbing cream on your back before this injection.
    * Once the area on your back is completely numb, your provider will insert a thin, hollow needle between two vertebrae in your lower spine. Vertebrae are the small backbones that make up your spine.
    * Your provider will withdraw a small amount of cerebrospinal fluid for testing. This will take about five minutes.
    * You'll need to stay very still while the fluid is being withdrawn.
    * Your provider may ask you to lie on your back for an hour or two after the procedure. This may prevent you from getting a headache afterward.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You don't need any special preparations for a syphilis blood test. For a
lumbar puncture, you may be asked to empty your bladder and bowels before the
test.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

If you had a lumbar puncture, you may have pain or tenderness in your back
where the needle was inserted. You may also get a headache after the
procedure.

## What do the results mean?

If your screening results were negative or normal, it means no syphilis
infection was found. Since antibodies can take a couple of weeks to develop in
response to a bacterial infection, you may need another screening test if you
think you were exposed to the infection. Ask your health care provider about
when or if you need to be re-tested.

If your screening tests show a positive result, you will have more testing to
rule out or confirm a syphilis diagnosis. If these tests confirm you have
syphilis, you will probably be treated with penicillin, a type of antibiotic.
Most early-stage syphilis infections are completely cured after antibiotic
treatment. Later-stage syphilis is also treated with antibiotics. Antibiotic
treatment for later-stage infections can stop the disease from getting worse,
but it can't undo damage already done.

If you have questions about your results, or about syphilis, talk to your
health care provider.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about syphilis tests?

If you are diagnosed with syphilis, you need to tell your sexual partner, so
he or she can get tested and treated if necessary.

## References

    1. American Pregnancy Association [Internet]. Irving (TX): American Pregnancy Association; c2018. Syphilis [updated 2018 Feb 7; cited 2018 Mar 29]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: http://americanpregnancy.org/womens-health/syphilis
    2. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Syphilis: CDC Fact Sheet (Detailed) [updated 2017 Feb 13; cited 2018 Mar 29]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/std/syphilis/stdfact-syphilis-detailed.htm
    3. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. Syphilis Tests [updated 2018 Mar 29; cited 2018 Mar 29]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/syphilis-tests
    4. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2018. Lumbar puncture (spinal tap): Overview; 2018 Mar 22 [cited 2018 Mar 29]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/tests-procedures/lumbar-puncture/about/pac-20394631
    5. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2018. Syphilis: Diagnosis and treatment; 2018 Jan 10 [cited 2018 Mar 29]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/syphilis/diagnosis-treatment/drc-20351762
    6. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2018. Syphilis: Symptoms and causes; 2018 Jan 10 [cited 2018 Mar 29]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/syphilis/symptoms-causes/syc-20351756
    7. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co., Inc.; c2018. Syphilis [cited 2018 Mar 29]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.merckmanuals.com/home/infections/sexually-transmitted-diseases-stds/syphilis
    8. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co., Inc.; c2018. Tests for Brain, Spinal Cord, and Nerve Disorders [cited 2018 Mar 29]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.merckmanuals.com/home/brain,-spinal-cord,-and-nerve-disorders/diagnosis-of-brain,-spinal-cord,-and-nerve-disorders/tests-for-brain,-spinal-cord,-and-nerve-disorders
    9. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Blood Tests [cited 2018 Mar 29]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    10. National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Syphilis [cited 2018 Mar 29]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.niaid.nih.gov/diseases-conditions/syphilis
    11. Tsang RSW, Radons SM, Morshed M. Laboratory diagnosis of syphilis: A survey to examine the range of tests used in Canada. Can J Infect Dis Med Microbiol [Internet]. 2011 [cited 2018 Apr 10]; 22(3): 83â87. Available from: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3200370
    12. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. University of Florida; c2018. Syphilis: Overview [updated 2018 Mar 29; cited 2018 Mar 29]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/syphilis
    13. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2018. Health Encyclopedia: Rapid Plasma Reagin [cited 2018 Mar 29]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid;=rapid_plasma_reagin_syphilis
    14. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2018. Health Encyclopedia: VDRL (CSF) [cited 2018 Mar 29]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid;=vdrl_csf
    15. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Syphilis Tests: Results [updated 2017 Mar 20; cited 2018 Mar 29]; [about 8 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/syphilis-tests/hw5839.html#hw5874
    16. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Syphilis Tests: Test Overview [updated 2017 Mar 20; cited 2018 Mar 29]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/syphilis-tests/hw5839.html
    17. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Syphilis Tests: Why It is Done [updated 2017 Mar 20; cited 2018 Mar 29]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/syphilis-tests/hw5839.html#hw5852

## Related Health Topics

    * Antibiotics
    * Bacterial Infections
    * Chlamydia Infections
    * Gonorrhea
    * HIV/AIDS
    * Sexually Transmitted Diseases
    * Syphilis

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Chlamydia Test
    * HIV Screening Test
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 26 February 2020 Page last reviewed: 24 July 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

