Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003533.htm    
                                Description: RPR (rapid plasma reagin) is a screening test for syphilis. It measures substances (proteins) calledÂ antibodies that are present in the blood of people who may have the disease.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

RPR test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003533.htm

# RPR test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

RPR (rapid plasma reagin) is a screening test for syphilis. It measures
substances (proteins) calledÂ antibodies that are present in the blood of
people who may have the disease.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is usually needed.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or slight bruising. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

The RPR test can be used to screen for syphilis. It is used to screen people
who have symptoms of sexually transmitted infections and is routinely used to
screen pregnant women for the disease.

Several states also require that couples be screened for syphilis before
getting a marriage license.

The test is also used to see how treatment for syphilis is working. After
treatment with antibiotics, the levels of syphilis antibodies should fall.
These levels can be monitored with another RPR test. Unchanged or rising
levels can mean a persistent infection.

The test is similar to the venereal disease research laboratory (VDRL) test.

## Normal Results

A negative test result is considered normal. However, the body does not always
produce antibodies specifically in response to the syphilis bacteria, so the
test is not always accurate. False-negatives may occur in people with early-
and late-stage syphilis. More testing may be needed before ruling out
syphilis.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A positive test result may mean that you have syphilis. If the screening test
is positive, the next step is to confirm the diagnosis with a more specific
test for syphilis, such as FTA-ABS. The FTA-ABS test will help distinguish
between syphilis and other infections or conditions.

How well the RPR test can detect syphilis depends on the stage of the
infection. The test is most sensitive (almost 100%) during the middle stages
of syphilis. It is less sensitive during the earlier and later stages of the
infection.

Some conditions may cause a false-positive test, including:

    * IV drug use
    * Lyme disease
    * Certain types of pneumonia
    * Malaria
    * Pregnancy
    * Systemic lupus erythematosus and some other autoimmune disorders
    * Tuberculosis (TB)

## Risks

There is very little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and
arteries vary in size from one person to another and from one side of the body
to the other. Taking blood from some people may be more difficult than from
others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

## Alternative Names

Rapid plasma reagin test; Syphilis screening test

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Rapid plasma regain (RPR) test â blood. In:
Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_.
6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:955-956.

Radolf JD, Tramont EC, Salazar JC. Syphilis ( _Treponema pallidum_ ). In:
Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's
Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 239.

US Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF), Bibbins-Domingo K, Grossman DC, et
al. Screening for syphilis infection in nonpregnant adults and adolescents: US
Preventive Services Task Force recommendation statement. _JAMA_. 2016;
315(21):2321-2327. PMID: 27272583 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27272583.Â

## Review Date 9/27/2017

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Syphilis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Syphilis2_thumb.jpg)Syphilis _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

