Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000724.htm    
                                Description: Syphilitic aseptic meningitis, or syphilitic meningitis, is a complication of untreated syphilis. It involves inflammation of the tissues covering the brain and spinal cord.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Syphilitic aseptic meningitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000724.htm

# Syphilitic aseptic meningitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Syphilitic aseptic meningitis, or syphilitic meningitis, is a complication of
untreated syphilis. It involves inflammation of the tissues covering the brain
and spinal cord.

## Causes

Syphilitic meningitis is a form of neurosyphilis. This condition is a life-
threatening complication of syphilis infection. Syphilis is a sexually
transmitted infection.

Syphilitic meningitis is similar to meningitis caused by other germs
(organisms).

Risks for syphilitic meningitis include a past infection with syphilis or
other sexually transmitted illnesses such as gonorrhea. Syphilis infections
are mainly spread through sex with an infected person. Sometimes, they may be
passed by nonsexual contact.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of syphilitic meningitis may include:

    * Changes in vision, such as blurred vision, decreased vision 
    * Fever
    * Headache
    * Mental status changes, including confusion, decreased attention span, and irritability
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Stiff neck or shoulders, muscle aches
    * Seizures
    * Sensitivity to light (photophobia) and loud noises
    * Sleepiness, lethargy, hard to wake up

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. This may show problems
with the nerves, including nerves that control eye movement.

Tests may include:

    * Cerebral angiography to check blood flow in the brain
    * Electroencephalogram (EEG) to measure electrical activity in the brain
    * Head CT scan
    * Spinal tap to remove a sample of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) for examination
    * VDRL blood test or RPR blood test to screen for a syphilis infection 

If screening tests show a syphilis infection, more tests are done to confirm
the diagnosis. Tests include:

    * FTA-ABS
    * MHA-TP
    * TP-PA
    * TP-EIA 

## Treatment

The goals of treatment are to cure the infection and stop symptoms from
getting worse. Treating the infection helps prevent new nerve damage and may
reduce symptoms. Treatment does not reverse existing damage.

Medicines likely to be given include:

    * Penicillin or other antibiotics (such as tetracycline or erythromycin) for a long time to make sure the infection goes away
    * Medicines for seizures

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Some people may need help eating, dressing, and caring for themselves.
Confusion and other mental changes may either improve or continue long-term
after antibiotic treatment.

Late-stage syphilis can cause nerve or heart damage. This can lead to
disability and death.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Inability to care for self
    * Inability to communicate or interact
    * Seizures that may result in injury
    * Stroke

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Go to the emergency room or call the local emergency number (such as 911) if
you have seizures.

Call your provider if you have a severe headache with fever or other symptoms,
especially if you have a history of syphilis infection.

## Prevention

Proper treatment and follow-up of syphilis infections will reduce the risk of
developing this type of meningitis.

If you are sexually active, practice safer sex and always use condoms.

All pregnant women should be screened for syphilis.

## Alternative Names

Meningitis - syphilitic; Neurosyphilis - syphilitic meningitis

## Images

    * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system
    * ![Primary syphilis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17266t.jpg)Primary syphilis
    * ![Syphilis - secondary on the palms](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1385t.jpg)Syphilis - secondary on the palms
    * ![Late-stage syphilis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8955t.jpg)Late-stage syphilis

## References

Radolf JD, Tramont EC, Salazar JC. Syphilis ( _Treponema pallidum_ ). In:
Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's
Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 239.

Tunkel AR, van de Beek D, Scheld WM. Acute meningitis. In: Bennett JE, Dolin
R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 89.

## Review Date 9/22/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Meningitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Meningitis_thumb.jpg)Meningitis
_Read more_

![Syphilis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Syphilis2_thumb.jpg)Syphilis _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

