Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000703.htm    
                                Description: Neurosyphilis is a bacterial infection of the brain or spinal cord. It usually occurs in people who have had untreated syphilis for many years.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Neurosyphilis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000703.htm

# Neurosyphilis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Neurosyphilis is a bacterial infection of the brain or spinal cord. It usually
occurs in people who have had untreated syphilis for many years.

## Causes

Neurosyphilis is caused by _Treponema pallidum_. This is the bacteria that
causes syphilis. Neurosyphilis usually occurs about 10 to 20 years after a
person is first infected with syphilis. Not everyone who has syphilis develops
this complication.

There are four different forms of neurosyphilis:

    * Asymptomatic (most common form)
    * General paresis
    * Meningovascular
    * Tabes dorsalis

Asymptomatic neurosyphilis occurs before symptomatic syphilis. Asymptomatic
means there aren't any symptoms.

## Symptoms

Symptoms usually affect the nervous system. Depending on the form of
neurosyphilis, symptoms may include any of the following:

    * Abnormal walk (gait), or unable to walk
    * Numbness in the toes, feet, or legs
    * Problems with thinking, such as confusion or poor concentration
    * Mental problems, such as depression or irritability
    * Headache, seizures, or stiff neck
    * Loss of bladder control (incontinence)
    * Tremors, or weakness
    * Visual problems, even blindness

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will do a physical examination and may find the
following:

    * Abnormal reflexes
    * Muscle atrophy
    * Muscle contractions
    * Mental changes 

Blood tests can be done to detect substances produced by the bacteria that
cause syphilis, this includes:

    * _Treponema pallidum_ particle agglutination assay (TPPA)
    * Venereal disease research laboratory (VDRL) test
    * Fluorescent treponemal antibody absorption (FTA-ABS)
    * Rapid plasma reagin (RPR)

With neurosyphilis, it is important to test the spinal fluid for signs of
syphilis.

Tests to look for problems with the nervous system may include:

    * Cerebral angiogram
    * Head CT scan
    * Lumbar puncture (spinal tap) and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis
    * MRI scan of the brain, brainstem, or spinal cord 

## Treatment

The antibiotic penicillin is used to treat neurosyphilis. It can be given in
different ways:

    * Injected into a vein several times a day for 10 to 14 days.
    * By mouth 4 times a day, combined with daily muscle injections, both taken for 10 to 14 days. 

You must have follow-up blood tests at 3, 6, 12, 24, and 36 months to make
sure the infection is gone. You will need follow-up lumbar punctures for CSF
analysis every 6 months. If you have HIV/AIDS or another medical condition,
your follow-up schedule may be different.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Neurosyphilis is a life-threatening complication of syphilis. How well you do
depends on how severe the neurosyphilis is before treatment.

## Possible Complications

The symptoms can slowly worsen.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have had syphilis in the past and now have signs of
nervous system problems.

## Prevention

Prompt diagnosis and treatment of the original syphilis infection can prevent
neurosyphilis.

## Alternative Names

Syphilis - neurosyphilis

## Images

    * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system
    * ![Late-stage syphilis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8955t.jpg)Late-stage syphilis

## References

Berger JR, Dean D. Neurosyphilis. _Handb Clin Neurol_. 2014;121:1461-1472.
PMID: 24365430 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24365430.

Radolf JD, Tramont EC, Salazar JC. Syphilis ( _Treponema pallidum_ ). In:
Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's
Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 239.

## Review Date 12/1/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Syphilis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Syphilis2_thumb.jpg)Syphilis _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

