Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003512.htm    
                                Description: The FTA-ABS test is used to detect antibodies to the bacteria Treponema pallidum, which causes syphilis.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

FTA-ABS blood test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003512.htm

# FTA-ABS blood test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The FTA-ABS test is used to detect antibodies to the bacteria _Treponema
pallidum,_ which causes syphilis.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is necessary.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or a slight bruise. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is done routinely to confirm whether a positive screening test for
syphilis (either VDRL or RPR) means you have a current syphilis infection.

It may also be done when other syphilis tests are negative, to rule out a
possible false-negative result.

## Normal Results

A negative or nonreactive result means that you do not have a current or past
infection with syphilis.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your health care
provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A positive FTA-ABS is often a sign of a syphilis infection. This test result
will remain positive for life even if syphilis has been adequately treated.
Therefore, it cannot be used to monitor the treatment of syphilis or determine
that you have active syphilis.

Other illnesses, such as yaws and pinta (two other kinds of skin diseases),
may also result in positive FTA-ABS results. Sometimes, there can be a false-
positive result, most often in women with lupus.

## Risks

Veins and arteries vary in size from one person to another and from one side
of the body to the other. Obtaining a blood sample from some people may be
more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

## Alternative Names

Fluorescent treponemal antibody absorption test

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Fluorescent treponemal antibody-absorbed double-stain
(FTA-Abs DS) test - serum. In: Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests
and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders;
2013:533-534.

Radolf JD, Tramont EC, Salazar JC. Syphilis ( _Treponema pallidum_ ). In:
Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's
Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 239.

US Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF), Bibbins-Domingo K, Grossman DC, et
al. Screening for syphilis infection in nonpregnant adults and adolescents: US
Preventive Services Task Force recommendation statement. _JAMA_.
2016;315(21):2321-2327. PMID: 27272583 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27272583.Â

## Review Date 9/27/2017

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Syphilis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Syphilis2_thumb.jpg)Syphilis _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

