Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003623.htm    
                                Description: The CSF-VDRL test is used to help diagnose neurosyphilis. It looks for substances (proteins) called antibodies, which are sometimes produced by the body in reaction to the syphilis-causing bacteria.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

CSF-VDRL test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003623.htm

# CSF-VDRL test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The CSF-VDRL test is used to help diagnose neurosyphilis. It looks for
substances (proteins) called antibodies, which are sometimes produced by the
body in reaction to the syphilis-causing bacteria.

## How the Test is Performed

A sample of spinal fluid is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Follow the health care provider's instructions on how to prepare for this
test.

## Why the Test is Performed

The CSF-VDRL test is done to diagnose syphilis in the brain or spinal cord.
Brain and spinal cord involvement is often a sign of late-stage syphilis.

Blood screening tests (VDRL and RPR) are better at detecting middle-stage
(secondary) syphilis.

## Normal Results

A negative result is normal.

False-negatives can occur. This means you can have syphilis even if this test
is normal. Therefore, a negative test does not always rule out the infection.
Other signs and tests may be used to diagnose neurosyphilis.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A positive result is abnormal and is a sign of neurosyphilis.

## Risks

Risks for this test are those related to lumbar puncture, which may include:

    * Bleeding into the spinal canal or around the brain (subdural hematomas).
    * Discomfort during the test.
    * Headache after the test that can last a few hours or days. If headaches last more than a few days (especially when you sit, stand or walk) you might have a CSF-leak. You should talk to your physician if this occurs.
    * Hypersensitivity (allergic) reaction to the anesthetic.
    * Infection introduced by the needle going through the skin.

Your provider can tell you about any other risks.

## Alternative Names

Venereal disease research laboratory slide test - CSF; Neurosyphilis - VDRL

## Images

    * ![CSF test for syphilis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9243t.jpg)CSF test for syphilis

## References

Karcher DS, McPherson RA. Cerebrospinal, synovial, serous body fluids, and
alternative specimens. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical
Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 29.

Radolf JD, Tramont EC, Salazar JC. Syphilis ( _Treponema pallidum_ ). In:
Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's
Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2020:chap 237.

## Review Date 8/25/2019

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Syphilis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Syphilis2_thumb.jpg)Syphilis _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

