Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000729.htm    
                                Description: Tabes dorsalis is a complication of untreated syphilis that involves muscle weakness and abnormal sensations.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Tabes dorsalis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000729.htm

# Tabes dorsalis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Tabes dorsalis is a complication of untreated syphilis that involves muscle
weakness and abnormal sensations.

## Causes

Tabes dorsalis is a form of neurosyphilis, which is a complication of late
stage syphilis infection. Syphilis is a bacterial infection that is spread
sexually.

When syphilis is untreated, the bacteria damages the spinal cord and
peripheral nervous tissue. This leads to the symptoms of tabes dorsalis.

Tabes dorsalis is now very rare because syphilis is usually treated early in
the disease.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of tabes dorsalis are caused by damage to the nervous system.
Symptoms include any of the following:

    * Abnormal sensations (paresthesia), often called "lightning pains"
    * Problems walking such as with the legs far apart
    * Loss of coordination and reflexes
    * Joint damage, especially of the knees
    * Muscle weakness
    * Vision changes
    * Bladder control problems
    * Sexual function problems

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam, focusing on the nervous
system.

If syphilis infection is suspected, tests may include the following:

    * Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) examination
    * Head CT, spine CT, or MRI scans of the brain and spinal cord to rule out other diseases
    * Serum VDRL or serum RPR (used as a screening test for syphilis infection)

If the serum VDRL or serum RPR test is positive, one of the following tests
will be needed to confirm the diagnosis:

    * FTA-ABS
    * MHA-TP
    * TP-EIA
    * TP-PA 

## Treatment

The goals of treatment are to cure the infection and slow the disease.
Treating the infection helps prevent new nerve damage and may reduce symptoms.
Treatment does not reverse existing nerve damage.

Medicines likely to be given include:

    * Penicillin or other antibiotics for a long time to make sure the infection goes away
    * Painkillers to control pain

Symptoms of existing nervous system damage need to be treated. People who are
unable to eat, dress themselves, or take care of themselves may need help.
Rehabilitation, physical therapy, and occupational therapy may help with
muscle weakness.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Left untreated, tabes dorsalis may lead to disability.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Blindness
    * Paralysis 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have:

    * Loss of coordination
    * Loss of muscle strength
    * Loss of sensation

## Prevention

Proper treatment and follow-up of syphilis infections reduces the risk of
developing tabes dorsalis.

If you are sexually active, practice safer sex and always use a condom.

All pregnant women should be screened for syphilis.

## Alternative Names

Locomotor ataxia; Syphilitic myelopathy; Syphilitic myeloneuropathy;
Myelopathy - syphilitic; Tabetic neurosyphilis

## Images

    * ![Superficial anterior muscles](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9678t.jpg)Superficial anterior muscles
    * ![Primary syphilis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17266t.jpg)Primary syphilis
    * ![Late-stage syphilis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8955t.jpg)Late-stage syphilis

## References

Hook EW. Syphilis. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_.
25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 319.

Radolf JD,Tramont EC, Salazar JC. Syphilis ( _Treponema pallidum_ ). In:
Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's
Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 239.

## Review Date 9/22/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Spinal
Cord](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SpinalCordDiseases_thumb.jpg)Spinal Cord
Diseases _Read more_

![Syphilis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Syphilis2_thumb.jpg)Syphilis _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

