Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003515.htm    
                                Description: The VDRL test is a screening test for syphilis. It measures substances (proteins), called antibodies, which your body may produce if you have come in contact with the bacteria that cause syphilis.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

VDRL test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003515.htm

# VDRL test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The VDRL test is a screening test for syphilis. It measures substances
(proteins), called antibodies, which your body may produce if you have come in
contact with the bacteria that cause syphilis.

## How the Test is Performed

The test is most often done using a blood sample. It can also be done using a
sample of spinal fluid. This article discusses the blood test.

A blood sample is needed.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people may feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or a slight bruise. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is used to screen for syphilis. The bacteria that cause syphilis is
called _Treponema pallidum._

Your health care provider may order this test if you have signs and symptoms
of a sexually transmitted illness (STI).

Syphilis screening is a routine part of prenatal care during pregnancy.
Several states also require screening for syphilis prior to obtaining a
marriage license.

This test is similar to the newer rapid plasma reagin (RPR) test.

## Normal Results

A negative test is normal. It means that no antibodies to syphilis have been
seen in your blood sample.

The screening test is most likely to be positive in the secondary and latent
stages of syphilis. This test may give a false-negative result during early-
and late-stage syphilis. This test must be confirmed with another blood test
to make the diagnosis of syphilis.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your provider
about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A positive test result meansÂ you may have syphilis. If the test is positive,
the next step is to confirm the results with an FTA-ABS test, which is a more
specific syphilis test.

The VDRL test's ability to detect syphilis depends on the stage of the
disease. The test's sensitivity to detect syphilis nears 100% during the
middle stages; it is less sensitive during the earlier and later stages.

Some conditions may cause a false-positive test, including:

    * HIV/AIDS
    * Lyme disease
    * Certain types of pneumonia
    * Malaria
    * Systemic lupus erythematosus

The body does not always produce antibodies specifically in response to the
syphilis bacteria, so this test is not always accurate.

## Risks

Veins and arteries vary in size from one person to another and from one side
of the body to the other. Obtaining a blood sample from some people may be
more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

## Alternative Names

Venereal disease research laboratory test; Syphilis - VDRL

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Venereal disease research laboratory test (VDRL) â
serum. In: Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic
Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:1165-1166.

Radolf JD, Tramont EC, Salazar JC. Syphilis ( _Treponema pallidum_ ). In:
Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's
Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 239.

US Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF), Bibbins-Domingo K, Grossman DC, et
al. Screening for syphilis infection in nonpregnant adults and adolescents: US
Preventive Services Task Force recommendation statement. _JAMA_. 2016;
315(21):2321-2327. PMID: 27272583 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27272583.

## Review Date 9/27/2017

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Syphilis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Syphilis2_thumb.jpg)Syphilis _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

