Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000748.htm    
                                Description: General paresis is a problem with mental function due to damage to the brain from untreated syphilis.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

General paresis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000748.htm

# General paresis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

General paresis is a problem with mental function due to damage to the brain
from untreated syphilis.

## Causes

General paresis isÂ one form of neurosyphilis. It usually occurs in people who
have had untreated syphilis for many years. Syphilis is bacterial infection
that is most often spread through sexual or nonsexual contact. Today,
neurosyphilis is very rare.

With neurosyphilis, the syphilis bacteria attack the brain and nervous system.
General paresis often begins about 10 to 30 years after the syphilis
infection.

## Symptoms

Syphilis infection can damage many different nerves of the brain. With general
paresis, symptoms are usually those of dementia and may include:

    * Memory problems
    * Language problems, such as saying or writing words incorrectly
    * Decreased mental function, such as problems thinking and with judgment
    * Mood changes
    * Personality changes, such as delusions, hallucinations, irritability, inappropriate behavior

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about your
medical history. During the exam, the doctor may check your nervous system
function. Mental function tests will also be done.

Tests that may be ordered to detect syphilis in the body include:

    * CSF-VDRL
    * FTA-ABS

Tests of the nervous system may include:

    * Head CT scan and MRI
    * Nerve conduction tests

## Treatment

The goals of treatment are to cure the infection and slow the disorder from
getting worse. The provider will prescribe penicillin or other antibiotics to
treat the infection. Treatment will likely continue until the infection has
completely cleared.

Treating the infection will reduce new nerve damage. But it will not cure
damage that has already occurred.

Treatment of symptoms is needed for existing nervous system damage.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Without treatment, a person can become disabled. People with late syphilis
infections are more likely to develop other infections and diseases.

## Possible Complications

Complications of this condition include:

    * Inability to communicate or interact with others
    * Injury due to seizures or falls
    * Inability to care for yourself

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you know you have been exposed to syphilis or another
sexually transmitted infection in the past, and have not been treated.

Call your provider if you have nervous system problems (such as trouble
thinking), especially if you know you have been infected with syphilis.

Go to the emergency room or call the local emergency number (such as 911) if
you have seizures.

## Prevention

Treating primary syphilis and secondary syphilis infections will prevent
general paresis.

Practicing safer sex, such as limiting partners and using protection, may
reduce the risk of getting infected with syphilis. Avoid direct skin contact
with people who have secondary syphilis.

## Alternative Names

General paresis of the insane; General paralysis of the insane; Paralytic
dementia

## Images

    * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system

## References

Hook EW. Syphilis. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_.
25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 319.

Radolf JD, Tramont EC, Salazar JC. Syphilis ( _Treponema pallidum_ ). In:
Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's
Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 239.

## Review Date 2/27/2018

Updated by: Joseph V. Campellone, MD, Department of Neurology, Cooper Medical
School at Rowan University, Camden, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Syphilis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Syphilis2_thumb.jpg)Syphilis _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

