Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000861.htm    
                                Description: Syphilis is a bacterial infection that is most often spread through sexual contact.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Syphilis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000861.htm

# Syphilis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Syphilis is a bacterial infection that is most often spread through sexual
contact.

## Causes

Syphilis is a sexually transmitted infectious (STI) disease caused by the
bacterium _Treponema pallidum_. This bacterium causes infection when it gets
into broken skin or mucus membranes, usually of the genitals. Syphilis is most
often transmitted through sexual contact, although it also can be transmitted
in other ways.

Syphilis occurs worldwide, most commonly in urban areas. The number of cases
is rising fastest in men who have sex with men (MSM). Young adults ages 20 to
35 are the highest-risk population. Because people may be unaware that they
are infected with syphilis, many states require tests for syphilis before
marriage. All pregnant women who receive prenatal care should be screened for
syphilis to prevent the infection from passing to their newborn (congenital
syphilis).

Syphilis has three stages:

    * Primary syphilis
    * Secondary syphilis
    * Tertiary syphilis (the late phase of the illness)

Secondary syphilis, tertiary syphilis, and congenital syphilis are not seen as
often in the United States because of education, screening, and treatment.

## Symptoms

The incubation period for primary syphilis is 14 to 21 days. Symptoms of
primary syphilis are:

    * Small, painless open sore or ulcer (called a chancre) on the genitals, mouth, skin, or rectum that heals by itself in 3 to 6 weeks
    * Enlarged lymph nodes in the area of the sore 

The bacteria continue to grow in the body, but there are few symptoms until
the second stage.

The symptoms of secondary syphilis start 4 to 8 weeks after the primary
syphilis. The symptoms may include:

    * Skin rash, usually on the palms of the hands and soles of the feet
    * Sores called mucous patches in or around the mouth, vagina, or penis
    * Moist, warty patches (called condylomata lata) in the genitals or skin folds
    * Fever
    * General ill feeling
    * Loss of appetite
    * Muscle and joint pain
    * Swollen lymph nodes
    * Vision changes
    * Hair loss 

Tertiary syphilis develops in untreated people. The symptoms depend on which
organs have been affected. They vary widely and can be difficult to diagnose.
Symptoms include:

    * Damage to the heart, causing aneurysms or valve disease
    * Central nervous system disorders (neurosyphilis)
    * Tumors of skin, bones, or liver 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about the
symptoms. Tests that may be done include:

    * Examination of fluid from sore (rarely done)
    * Echocardiogram, aortic angiogram, and cardiac catheterization to look at the major blood vessels and the heart
    * Spinal tap and examination of spinal fluid
    * Blood tests to screen for syphilis bacteria (RPR, VDRL, or TRUST) 

If the RPR, VDRL, or TRUST tests are positive, one of the following tests will
be needed to confirm the diagnosis:

    * FTA-ABS (fluorescent treponemal antibody test)
    * MHA-TP
    * TP-EIA
    * TP-PA 

## Treatment

Syphilis can be treated with antibiotics, such as:

    * Penicillin G benzathine
    * Doxycycline (type of tetracycline given to people who are allergic to penicillin)

Length of treatment depends on how severe the syphilis is, and factors such as
the person's overall health.

To treat syphilis during pregnancy, penicillin is the drug of choice.
Tetracycline cannot be used for treatment because it is dangerous to the
unborn baby. Erythromycin may not prevent congenital syphilis in the baby.
People who are allergic to penicillin should ideally be desensitized to it,
and then treated with penicillin.

Several hours after getting treatment for the early stages of syphilis, people
may experience the Jarisch-Herxheimer reaction. This process is caused by an
immune reaction to the breakdown products of the infection.

Symptoms and signs of this reaction include:

    * Chills
    * Fever
    * General ill feeling (malaise)
    * Headache
    * Muscle and joint pain
    * Nausea
    * Rash 

These symptoms usually disappear within 24 hours.

Follow-up blood tests must be done at 3, 6, 12, and 24 months to ensure that
the infection is gone. Avoid sexual contact when the chancre is present. Use
condoms until two follow-up tests have shown that the infection has been
cured, to reduce the chance of transmitting the infection.

All sexual partners of the person with syphilis should also be treated.
Syphilis can spread very easily in the primary and secondary stages.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Primary and secondary syphilis can be cured if it is diagnosed early and
completely treated.

Although secondary syphilis usually goes away within weeks, in some cases it
may last for up to 1 year. Without treatment, up to one-third of people will
have late complications of syphilis.

Late syphilis may be permanently disabling, and it may lead to death.

## Possible Complications

Complications of syphilis may include:

    * Cardiovascular problems (aortitis and aneurysms)
    * Destructive sores of skin and bones (gummas)
    * Neurosyphilis
    * Syphilitic myelopathy \- a complication that involves muscle weakness and abnormal sensations
    * Syphilitic meningitis

In addition, untreated secondary syphilis during pregnancy may spread the
disease to the developing baby. This is called congenital syphilis.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your health care provider if you have symptoms of
syphilis.

Also contact your provider, or get screened in an STI clinic if you have:

    * Had intimate contact with a person who has syphilis or any other STI
    * Engaged in any high-risk sexual practices, including having multiple or unknown partners or using intravenous drugs 

## Prevention

If you are sexually active, practice safer sex and always use a condom.

All pregnant women should be screened for syphilis.

## Alternative Names

Primary syphilis; Secondary syphilis; Late syphilis; Tertiary syphilis;
Treponema - syphilis; Clap; Lues; Sexually transmitted disease - syphilis;
Sexually transmitted infection - syphilis; STD - syphilis; STI - syphilis

## Images

    * ![Primary syphilis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17266t.jpg)Primary syphilis
    * ![Male and female reproductive systems](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9885t.jpg)Male and female reproductive systems
    * ![Syphilis - secondary on the palms](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1385t.jpg)Syphilis - secondary on the palms
    * ![Late-stage syphilis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8955t.jpg)Late-stage syphilis

## References

Hook EW. Syphilis. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_.
25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 319.

Radolf JD, Tramont EC, Salazar JC . Syphilis (Treponema pallidum). In: Bennett
JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and
Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 239.

Stary G, Stary A. Sexually transmitted infections. In: Bolognia JL, Schaffer
JV, Cerroni L, eds. _Dermatology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2018:chap 82.

## Review Date 9/22/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Syphilis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Syphilis2_thumb.jpg)Syphilis _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

