Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001609.htm    
                                Description: Interstitial keratitis is inflammation of the tissue of the cornea, the clear window on the front of the eye. The condition can lead to vision loss.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Interstitial keratitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001609.htm

# Interstitial keratitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Interstitial keratitis is inflammation of the tissue of the cornea, the clear
window on the front of the eye. The condition can lead to vision loss.

## Causes

Interstitial keratitis is a serious condition in which blood vessels grow into
the cornea. Such growth can cause loss of the normal clearness of the cornea.
This condition is often caused by infections.

Syphilis is the most common cause of interstitial keratitis, but rare causes
include:

    * Autoimmune diseases, like rheumatoid arthritis and sarcoidosis
    * Leprosy
    * Lyme disease
    * Tuberculosis

In the United States, most cases of syphilis are recognized and treated before
this eye condition develops.

However, interstitial keratitis accounts for 10% of avoidable blindness in the
least developed countries worldwide.Â

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

    * Eye pain
    * Excessive tearing
    * Sensitivity to light (photophobia) 

## Exams and Tests

Interstitial keratitis can be easily diagnosed by slit-lamp examination of the
eyes. Blood tests and chest x-rays will most often be needed to confirm the
infection or disease that is causing the condition.

## Treatment

The underlying disease must be treated. Treating the cornea with
corticosteroid drops may minimize scarring and help keep the cornea clear.

Once the active inflammation has passed, the cornea is left severely scarred
and with abnormal blood vessels. The only way to restore vision at this stage
is with a cornea transplant.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Diagnosing and treating interstitial keratitis and its cause early can
preserve the clear cornea and good vision.

## Possible Complications

A corneal transplant is not as successful for interstitial keratitis as it is
for most other corneal diseases. The presence of blood vessels in the diseased
cornea brings white blood cells to the newly transplanted cornea and increases
the risk of rejection.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

People with interstitial keratitis need to be followed closely by
ophthalmologist and a medical specialist with knowledge of the underlying
disease.

A person with the condition should be checked immediately if:

    * Pain gets worse
    * Redness increases
    * Vision decreases

This is particularly crucial for people with corneal transplants.

## Prevention

Prevention consists of avoiding the infection that causes interstitial
keratitis. If you do get infected, get prompt and thorough treatment and
follow-up.

## Alternative Names

Keratitis interstitial; Cornea - keratitis

## Images

    * ![Eye](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1094t.jpg)Eye

## References

Bowling B. Cornea. In: Bowling B, ed. _Kanski's Clinical Ophthalmology_. 8th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 6.

Dobson SR, Sanchez PJ. Syphilis. In: Cherry JD, Harrison GJ, Kaplan SL,
Steinbach WJ, Hotez PJ, eds. _Feigin and Cherry's Textbook of Pediatric
Infectious Diseases_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 144.

Vasaiwala RA, Bouchard CS. Noninfectious keratitis. In: Yanoff M, Duker JS,
eds. _Ophthalmology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 4.17.

World Health Organization website. Blindness and vision impairment.
www.who.int/blindness/en/. Accessed December 06, 2018.

## Review Date 8/28/2018

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. Editorial update
12/06/2018.

![Corneal
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CornealDisorders_thumb.jpg)Corneal
Disorders _Read more_

![Syphilis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Syphilis2_thumb.jpg)Syphilis _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

