Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/gonorrhea-test/    
                                Description: Gonorrhea is a common STD that can be cured with the right treatment. Learn how a gonorrhea test helps diagnose the disease so it can be treated promptly.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Gonorrhea Test

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/gonorrhea-test/

# Gonorrhea Test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a gonorrhea test?

Gonorrhea is one of the most common sexually transmitted diseases (STDs). It
is a bacterial infection spread through vaginal, oral, or anal sex with an
infected person. It can also be spread from a pregnant woman to her baby
during childbirth. Gonorrhea can infect both men and women. It is most common
in young people, aged 15â24.

Many people with gonorrhea don't know they have it. So they may spread it to
others without knowing it. Men with gonorrhea may have some symptoms. But
women often have no symptoms or mistake gonorrhea symptoms for a bladder or
vaginal infection.

A gonorrhea test looks for the presence of gonorrhea bacteria in your body.
The disease can be cured with antibiotics. But if it's not treated, gonorrhea
can lead to infertility and other serious health problems. In women, it can
cause pelvic inflammatory disease and ectopic pregnancy. Ectopic pregnancy is
a pregnancy that develops outside the uterus, where a baby can't survive. If
not treated promptly, ectopic pregnancy can be fatal to the mother.

In men, gonorrhea can cause painful urination and scarring of the urethra. The
urethra is a tube that allows urine to flow from the bladder to the outside of
the body and also carries semen. In men, this tube runs through the penis.

Other names: GC test, gonorrhea DNA probe test, gonorrhea nucleic acid
amplification test (NAAT)

## What is it used for?

A gonorrhea test is used to find out whether you have a gonorrhea infection.
It's sometimes done along with a test for chlamydia, another type of sexually
transmitted disease (STD). Gonorrhea and chlamydia have similar symptoms, and
the two STDs often occur together.

## Why do I need a gonorrhea test?

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommends yearly
gonorrhea tests for all sexually active women under the age of 25. It is also
recommended for sexually active older women with certain risk factors. Risk
factors include:

    * Having multiple sex partners
    * Previous gonorrhea infection
    * Having other STDs
    * Having a sex partner with an STD
    * Not using condoms consistently or correctly

The CDC recommends yearly testing for men who have sex with men. Testing is
not recommended for heterosexual men with no symptoms.

Both men and women should be tested if they have symptoms of gonorrhea.

Symptoms for women include:

    * Vaginal discharge
    * Pain during sex
    * Bleeding between periods
    * Pain when urinating
    * Abdominal pain

Symptoms for men include:

    * Pain or tenderness in the testicles
    * Swollen scrotum
    * Pain when urinating
    * White, yellow, or greenish discharge from the penis

If you are pregnant, you may get a gonorrhea test early in your pregnancy. A
pregnant woman with gonorrhea can pass the infection to her baby during
delivery. Gonorrhea can cause blindness and other serious, sometimes life-
threatening, complications in infants. If you are pregnant and have gonorrhea,
you can be treated with an antibiotic that is safe for you and your child.

## What happens during a gonorrhea test?

If you are a woman, a sample may be taken from your cervix. For this
procedure, you will lie on your back on an exam table, with your knees bent.
You will rest your feet in supports called stirrups. Your health care provider
will use a plastic or metal instrument called a speculum to open the vagina,
so the cervix can be seen. Your provider will then use a soft brush or plastic
spatula to collect the sample.

If you are a man, your provider may take a swab from the opening of your
urethra.

For both men and women, a sample may be taken from a suspected area of
infection, such as the mouth or rectum. Urine tests are also used for both men
and women.

Some gonorrhea tests can be done with an at-home STD test kit. If your health
care provider recommends at-home testing, be sure to follow all directions
carefully.

Your health care provider may order tests for other STDs when you get a
gonorrhea test. These may include tests for chlamydia, syphilis, and/or HIV.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

If you are a woman, you may be asked to avoid using douches or vaginal creams
for 24 hours before your test. For a urine test, both men and women should not
urinate 1â2 hours before the sample is collected.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There are no known risks to having a gonorrhea test. Women may feel some mild
discomfort during a swab test of the cervix. Afterward, you may have a little
bleeding or other vaginal discharge.

## What do the results mean?

Your results will be given as negative, also called normal, or positive, also
called abnormal.

 **Negative/Normal:** No gonorrhea bacteria were found. If you have certain
symptoms, you may get additional STD tests to find out the cause.

 **Positive/Abnormal:** You are infected with the gonorrhea bacteria. You will
be treated with antibiotics to cure the infection. Be sure to take all the
required doses. Antibiotic treatment should stop the infection, but some types
of gonorrhea bacteria are becoming resistant (less effective or ineffective)
to certain antibiotics. If your symptoms don't improve after treatment, your
health care provider may order a "susceptibility test." A susceptibility test
is used to help determine which antibiotic will be most effective in treating
your infection.

Regardless of your treatment, be sure to let your sex partner know if you have
tested positive for gonorrhea. That way, he or she can be tested and treated
promptly.

If you have questions about your results, talk to your health care provider.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about a gonorrhea test?

The best way to prevent infection with gonorrhea or other STD is to not have
sex. If you are sexually active, you can reduce your risk of infection by:

    * Being in a long-term relationship with one partner who has tested negative for STDs
    * Using condoms correctly every time you have sex

## References

    1. ACOG: Women's Healthcare Physicians [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists; c2017. Chlamydia, Gonorrhea, and Syphilis [cited 2018 Jun 8]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.acog.org/Patients/FAQs/Chlamydia-Gonorrhea-and-Syphilis
    2. American Pregnancy Association [Internet]. Irving (TX): American Pregnancy Association; c2018. Gonorrhea During Pregnancy [cited 2018 Jun 8]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: http://americanpregnancy.org/pregnancy-complications/gonorrhea-during-pregnancy
    3. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Gonorrhea-CDC Fact Sheet [updated 2017 Oct 4; cited 2018 Jun 8]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/std/gonorrhea/stdfact-gonorrhea.htm
    4. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Gonorrhea-CDC Fact Sheet (Detailed Version) [updated 2017 Sep 26; cited 2018 Jun 8]; [about 6 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/std/gonorrhea/stdfact-gonorrhea-detailed.htm
    5. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Gonorrhea Treatment and Care [updated 2017 Oct 31; cited 2018 Jun 8]; [about 6 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/std/gonorrhea/treatment.htm
    6. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. Antibiotic Susceptibility Testing [updated 2018 Jun 8; cited 2018 Jun 8]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/antibiotic-susceptibility-testing
    7. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. Gonorrhea Testing [updated 2018 Jun 8; cited 2018 Jun 8]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/gonorrhea-testing
    8. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. Urethra [updated 2017 Jul 10; cited 2018 Jun 8]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/glossary/urethra
    9. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2018. Gonorrhea: Symptoms and Causes; 2018 Feb 6 [cited 2018 Jun 8]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/gonorrhea/symptoms-causes/syc-20351774
    10. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2018. Gonorrhea: Diagnosis and Treatment; 2018 Feb 6 [cited 2018 Jun 8]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/gonorrhea/diagnosis-treatment/drc-20351780
    11. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co., Inc.; c2018. Gonorrhea [cited 2018 Jun 8]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.merckmanuals.com/home/infections/sexually-transmitted-diseases-stds/gonorrhea
    12. Nemours Children's Health System [Internet]. Jacksonville (FL): The Nemours Foundation; c1995â2018.Teen Health: Gonorrhea [cited 2018 Jan 31]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: http://kidshealth.org/en/teens/std-gonorrhea.html
    13. Shih, SL, EH, Graseck AS, Secura GM, Peipert JF. Screening for STIs at Home or in the Clinic?; Curr Opin Infect Dis [Internet]. 2011 Feb [cited 2018 Jun 8]; 24(1):78â84. Available from: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3125396
    14. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. University of Florida; c2018. Gonorrhea [updated 2018 Jun 8; cited 2018 Jun 8]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/gonorrhea
    15. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2017. Health Encyclopedia: Ectopic Pregnancy [cited 2018 Jun 8]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?ContentTypeID=90&ContentID=p02446
    16. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2017. Health Encyclopedia: Gonorrhea Test (Swab) [cited 2018 Jun 8]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid=gonorrhea_culture_dna_probe
    17. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Health Information: Gonorrhea Test: How It Is Done [updated 2017 Mar 20; cited 2018 Jun 8]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/gonorrhea-test/hw4905.html#hw4930
    18. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Health Information: Gonorrhea Test: How To Prepare [updated 2017 Mar 20; cited 2018 Jun 8]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/gonorrhea-test/hw4905.html#hw4927
    19. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Health Information: Gonorrhea Test: Results [updated 2017 Mar 20; cited 2018 Jun 8]; [about 8 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/gonorrhea-test/hw4905.html#hw4948
    20. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Health Information: Gonorrhea Test: Risks [updated 2017 Mar 20; cited 2018 Jun 8]; [about 7 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/gonorrhea-test/hw4905.html#hw4945
    21. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Health Information: Gonorrhea Test: Test Overview [updated 2017 Mar 20; cited 2018 Jun 8]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/gonorrhea-test/hw4905.html

## Related Health Topics

    * Antibiotic Resistance
    * Antibiotics
    * Bacterial Infections
    * Chlamydia Infections
    * Ectopic Pregnancy
    * Gonorrhea
    * Infertility
    * Pelvic Inflammatory Disease
    * Sexually Transmitted Diseases
    * Urethral Disorders
    * Women's Health Checkup

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Chlamydia Test
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results
    * Pap Smear

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 25 February 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

