Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003759.htm    
                                Description: Rectal culture is a lab test to identify bacteria and other germs in the rectum that can cause gastrointestinal symptoms and disease.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Rectal culture

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003759.htm

# Rectal culture

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Rectal culture is a lab test to identify bacteria and other germs in the
rectum that can cause gastrointestinal symptoms and disease.

## How the Test is Performed

A cotton swab is placed into the rectum. The swab is rotated gently, and
removed.

A smear of the swab is placed in culture media to encourage the growth of
bacteria and other organisms. The culture is watched for growth.

The organisms can be identified when growth is seen. More tests may be done to
determine the best treatment.

## How to Prepare for the Test

The health care provider does a rectal exam and collects the specimen.

## How the Test will Feel

There may be pressure as the swab is inserted into the rectum. The test is not
painful in most cases.

## Why the Test is Performed

The test is done if your provider suspects that you have an infection of the
rectum, such as gonorrhea. It may also be done instead of a fecal culture if
it is not possible to get a specimen of feces.

The rectal culture may also be performed in a hospital or nursing home
setting. This test shows if someone carries vancomycin-resistant enterococcus
(VRE) in their intestine. This germ can be spread to other patients.

## Normal Results

Finding bacteria and other germs that are commonly found in the body is
normal.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different labs. Talk to your
provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may mean you have an infection. This may be:

    * BacterialÂ infection
    * Parasitic enterocolitis
    * Gonorrhea

Sometimes a culture shows that you are a carrier, but you may not have an
infection.

A related condition is proctitis.

## Risks

There are no risks.

## Alternative Names

Culture - rectal

## Images

    * ![Rectal culture](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9811t.jpg)Rectal culture

## References

Batteiger BE, Tan M. Chlamydia trachomatis (trachoma, genital infections,
perinatal infections, and lymphogranuloma venereum). In: Bennett JE, Dolin R,
Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles And Practice Of
Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 182.

Beavis, KG, Charnot-Katsikas, A. Specimen collection and handling for
diagnosis of infectious diseases. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's
Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 64.

DuPont HL. Approach to the patient with suspected enteric infection. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 283.

Haines CF, Sears CL. Infectious enteritis and proctocolitis. In: Feldman M,
Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and
Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 110.

Marrazzo JM, Apicella MA. _Neisseria gonorrhoeae_ (Gonorrhea). In: Bennett JE,
Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles And
Practice Of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 214.

Semrad CE. Approach to the patient with diarrhea and malabsorption. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 140.

Siddiqi HA, Salwen MJ, Shaikh MF, Bowne WB. Laboratory diagnosis of
gastrointestinal and pancreatic disorders. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds.
_Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 22.

## Review Date 4/16/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Gastroenteritis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Gastroenteritis_thumb.jpg)Gastroenteritis
_Read more_

![Gonorrhea](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Gonorrhea2_thumb.jpg)Gonorrhea
_Read more_

![Parasitic
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ParasticDiseases_thumb.jpg)Parasitic
Diseases _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

