Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000653.htm    
                                Description: It is normal to be worried after finding out that you have genital herpes. But know that you are not alone. Millions of people carry the virus. Although there is no cure, genital herpes can be treated.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Genital herpes - self-care

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000653.htm

# Genital herpes - self-care

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

It is normal to be worried after finding out that you have genital herpes. But
know that you are not alone. Millions of people carry the virus. Although
there is no cure, genital herpes can be treated. Follow your health care
provider's instructions for treatment and follow-up.

## Future Outbreaks

One type of herpes virus stays in the body by hiding within nerve cells. It
can remain "asleep" (dormant) for a long time. The virus can "wake up"
(reactivate) at any time. This can be triggered by:

    * Fatigue
    * Genital irritation
    * Menstruation
    * Physical or emotional stress
    * Injury 

The pattern of outbreaks varies widely in people with herpes. Some people
carry the virus even though they've never had symptoms. Others may have only
one outbreak or outbreaks that occur rarely. Some people have regular
outbreaks that occur every 1 to 4 weeks.

## Self-care

To ease symptoms:

    * Take acetaminophen, ibuprofen, or aspirin to relieve pain.
    * Apply cool compresses to sores several times a day to relieve pain and itching.
    * Women with sores on the vaginal lips (labia) can try urinating in a tub of water to avoid pain. 

Doing the following may help sores heal:

    * Wash sores gently with soap and water. Then pat dry.
    * DO NOT bandage sores. Air speeds healing.
    * DO NOT pick at sores. They can get infected, which slows healing.
    * DO NOT use ointment or lotion on sores unless your provider prescribes it. 

Wear loose-fitting cotton underwear. DO NOT wear nylon or other synthetic
pantyhose or underwear. Also, DO NOT wear tight-fitting pants.

## Medicine

Genital herpes cannot be cured. Antiviral medicine (acyclovir and related
drugs) may relieve pain and discomfort and help the outbreak go away faster.
It may also reduce the number of outbreaks. Follow your provider's
instructions about how to take this medicine if it has been prescribed. There
are two ways to take it:

    * One way is to take it for about 7 to 10 days only when symptoms occur. This typically shortens the time it takes for symptoms to clear up.
    * The other is to take it daily to prevent outbreaks. 

Generally, there are very few if any side effects from this medicine. If they
occur, side effects may include:

    * Fatigue
    * Headache
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Rash
    * Seizures
    * Tremor 

## Reducing Outbreaks

Consider taking antiviral medicine daily to keep outbreaks from developing.

Taking steps to keep yourself healthy can also minimize the risk for future
outbreaks. Things you can do include:

    * Get plenty of sleep. This helps keep your immune system strong.
    * Eat healthy foods. Good nutrition also helps your immune system stay strong.
    * Keep stress low. Constant stress can weaken your immune system.
    * Protect yourself from the sun, wind, and extreme cold and heat. Use sunscreen, especially on your lips. On windy, cold, or hot days, stay indoors or take steps to guard against the weather. 

## Preventing the Spread of Herpes

Even when you do not have sores, you can pass (shed) the virus to someone
during sexual or other close contact. To protect others:

    * Let any sexual partner know that you have herpes before having sex. Allow them to decide what to do.
    * Use latex or polyurethane condoms, and avoid sex during symptomatic outbreaks.
    * DO NOT have vaginal, anal, or oral sex when you have sores on or near the genitals, anus, or mouth.
    * DO NOT kiss or have oral sex when you have a sore on the lips or inside the mouth.
    * DO NOT share your towels, toothbrush, or lipstick. Make sure dishes and utensils you use are washed well with detergent before others use them.
    * Wash your hands well with soap and water after touching a sore.
    * Consider using daily antiviral medicine to limit viral shedding and reduce the risk of passing the virus to your partner.
    * You may also want to consider getting your partner tested even if they have never had an outbreak. If you both have the herpes virus, there is no risk for transmission. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if you have any of the following:

    * Symptoms of an outbreak that worsen despite medicine and self-care
    * Symptoms that include severe pain and sores that do not heal
    * Frequent outbreaks
    * Outbreaks during pregnancy 

## Alternative Names

Herpes - genital - self-care; Herpes simplex - genital - self-care;
Herpesvirus 2 - self-care; HSV-2 - self-care

## References

Gardella C, Eckert LO, Lentz GM. Genital tract infections: vulva, vagina,
cervix, toxic shock syndrome, endometritis, and salpingitis. In: Lobo RA,
Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 23.

Whitley RJ. Herpes simplex virus infections. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 374.

Workowski KA, Bolan GA; Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Sexually
transmitted diseases treatment guidelines, 2015. _MMWR Recomm Rep_.
2015;64(RR-03):1-137. PMID: 26042815 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26042815.

## Review Date 9/25/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Genital Herpes

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

