Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000838.htm    
                                Description: Body lice are tiny insects (scientific name is Pediculus humanus corporis) that are spread through close contact with other people.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Body lice

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000838.htm

# Body lice

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Body lice are tiny insects (scientific name is _Pediculus humanus corporis_ )
that are spread through close contact with other people.

![Body louse](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/1238.jpg)

Two other types of lice are:

    * Head lice
    * Pubic lice

## Causes

Body lice live in the seams and folds of clothing. They feed on human blood
and lay their eggs and deposit waste matter on the skin and clothing.

Lice die within 3 days at room temperature if they fall off a person into most
areas of the environment. However, they can live in the seams of clothing for
up to 1 month.

You can get body lice if you come in direct contact with someone who has lice.
You can also get lice from infected clothing, towels, or bedding.

Body lice are bigger than other types of lice.

You are more likely to get body lice if you do not bathe and wash your clothes
often or live in close (overcrowded) conditions. Lice are unlikely to last if
you:

    * Bathe regularly
    * Wash clothes and bedding at least once a week 

## Symptoms

Lice cause severe itching. The itching is a reaction to the saliva from the
insect's bite. Itching is usually worse around the waist, under the arms, and
in places where clothing is tighter and closer to the body (such as near bra
straps).

You may have red bumps on your skin. The bumps may scab or become crusty after
scratching.

Skin around the waist or groin may become thickened or change color if you
have been infected with lice in that area for a long time.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will look at your skin and clothing for signs of
lice.

    * Full-grown lice are the size of a sesame seed, have 6 legs, and are tan to grayish-white.
    * Nits are lice eggs. They will most often be seen in the clothing of someone with lice,Â usuallyÂ around the waist and in the armpits. 

You should also be checked for head and pubic lice if you have body lice.

## Treatment

To get rid of body lice, take the following important steps:

    * Bathe regularly to get rid of lice and their eggs.
    * Change your clothes often.
    * Wash clothes in hot water (at least 130Â°F or 54Â°C) and machine dry using the hot cycle.
    * Items that can't be washed, such as stuffed toys, mattresses, or furniture, can be thoroughly vacuumed to get rid of lice and eggs that have fallen off the body. 

Your provider may prescribe a skin cream or a wash that contains permethrin,
malathione, or benzyl alcohol. If your case is severe, the provider may
prescribe medicine that you take by mouth.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

By taking the above mentioned steps, body lice can be completely destroyed.

## Possible Complications

Scratching can make your skin more likely to become infected. Because body
lice spread easily to others, people you live with and sexual partners need to
be treated as well.Â In rare cases, lice carry uncommon diseases, such as
trench fever, which may be spread to humans.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have lice in your clothing or itching that does not
go away.

## Prevention

If you know someone is infested with body lice, avoid direct contact with that
person, the person's clothing and bedding.

## Alternative Names

Lice - body; Pediculosis corporis; Vagabond disease

## Images

    * ![Body louse](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1238t.jpg)Body louse
    * ![Lice, body with stool \(Pediculus humanus\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2608t.jpg)Lice, body with stool (Pediculus humanus)
    * ![Body louse, female and larvae](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2609t.jpg)Body louse, female and larvae

## References

Habif TP. Infestations and bites. In: Habif TP, eds. _Clinical dermatology_.
6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 15.

Kim HJ, Levitt JO. Pediculosis. In: Lebwohl MG, Heymann WR, Berth-Jones J,
Coulson IH, eds. _Treatment of Skin Disease: Comprehensive Therapeutic
Strategies_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 184.

## Review Date 7/12/2019

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Lice](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Lice2_thumb.jpg)Body Lice _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

