Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003000.htm    
                                Description:  &#10; Hypospadias repair is surgery to correct a defect in the opening of the penis that is present at birth. The urethra (the tube that carries urine from the bladder to outside the body) does not end at    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hypospadias repair

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003000.htm

# Hypospadias repair

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hypospadias repair is surgery to correct a defect in the opening of the penis
that is present at birth. The urethra (the tube that carries urine from the
bladder to outside the body) does not end at the tip of the penis. Instead, it
ends on the underside of the penis. In more severe cases, the urethra opens at
the middle or bottom of the penis, or in or behind the scrotum.

## Description

Hypospadias repair is done most often when boys are between 6 months and 2
years old. The surgery is done as an outpatient. TheÂ child rarely has to
spend a night in the hospital. Boys who are born with hypospadias should not
be circumcised at birth. The extra tissue of the foreskin may be needed to
repair the hypospadias during surgery.

Before surgery, your child will receive general anesthesia. This will make him
sleep and make him unable to feel pain during surgery. Mild defects may be
repaired in one procedure. Severe defects may need two or more procedures.

The surgeon will use a small piece of foreskin or tissue from another site to
create a tube that increases the length of the urethra. Extending the length
of the urethra will allow it to open at the tip of the penis.

During surgery, the surgeon may place a catheter (tube) in the urethra to make
it hold its new shape. The catheter may be sewn or fastened to the head of the
penis to keep it in place. It will be removed 1 to 2 weeks after surgery.

Most of the stitches used during surgery will dissolve on their own and will
not have to be removed later.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Hypospadias is one of the most common birth defects in boys. This surgery is
performed on most boys who are born with the problem.

If the repair is not done, problems may occur later on such as:

    * Difficulty controlling and directing urine stream
    * A curve in the penis during erection
    * Decreased fertility
    * Embarrassment about appearance of penis  
  

Surgery is not needed if the condition does not affect normal urination while
standing, sexual function, or the deposit of semen.

## Risks

Risks for this procedure include:

    * A hole that leaks urine (fistula)
    * Large blood clot (hematoma)
    * Scarring or narrowing of the repaired urethra 

## Before the Procedure

The child's health care provider may ask for a complete medical history and do
a physical exam before the procedure.

Always tell the provider:

    * What medicines your child is taking
    * Drugs, herbs, and vitamins your child is taking that you bought without a prescription
    * Any allergies your child has to medicine, latex, tape, or skin cleaner 

Ask the child's provider which drugs your child should still take on the day
of surgery.

On the day of the surgery:

    * Your child will most often be asked not to drink or eat anything after midnight the night before surgery or 6 to 8 hours prior to surgery.
    * Give your child any drugs your provider told you to give your child with a small sip of water.
    * You will be told when to arrive for the surgery.
    * The provider will make sure your child is healthy enough for surgery. If your child is ill, the surgery may be delayed. 

## After the Procedure

Right after surgery, the child's penis may be taped to his belly so that it
does not move.

Often, a bulky dressing or plastic cup is placed over the penis to protect the
surgical area. A urinary catheter (a tube used to drain urine from the
bladder) will be put through the dressing so urine can flow into the diaper.

Your child will be encouraged to drink fluids so that he will urinate.
Urinating will keep pressure from building up in the urethra.

Your child may be given medicine to relieve pain. Most of the time, the child
can leave the hospital the same day as the surgery. If you live a long way
from the hospital, you may want to stay in a hotel near the hospital for the
first night after the surgery.

Your provider will explain how to take care of your child at home after
leaving the hospital.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

This surgery lasts a lifetime. Most children do well after this surgery. The
penis will look almost or completely normal and function well.

If your child has a complicated hypospadias, he may need more operations to
improve the penis appearance or to repair a hole or narrowing in the urethra.

Follow-up visits with a urologist may be needed after the surgery has healed.
Boys will sometimes need to visit the urologist when they reach puberty.

## Alternative Names

Urethroplasty; Meatoplasty; Glanuloplasty

## Patient Instructions

    * Hypospadias repair - discharge 
    * Kegel exercises - self-care
    * Surgical wound care - open

## Images

    * ![Hypospadias](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9429t.jpg)Hypospadias
    * ![Hypospadias repair - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/13959t.jpg)Hypospadias repair - series

## References

Carrasco A, Murphy JP. Hypospadias. In: Holcomb GW, Murphy JP, St. Peter SD,
eds. _Holcomb and Ashcraft's Pediatric Surgery_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2020:chap 59.

Elder JS. Anomalies of the penis and urethra. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW,
Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM,. eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_.
21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 559.

Snodgrass WT, Bush NC. Hypospadias. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW,
Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 147.

Thomas JC, Brock JW. Repair of proximal hypospadias. In: Smith JA Jr, Howards
SS, Preminger GM, Dmochowski RR, eds. _Hinman's Atlas of Urologic Surgery_.
4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 130.

## Review Date 7/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Birth Defects](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BirthDefect_thumb.jpg)Birth
Defects _Read more_

![Penis
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PenisDisorders_thumb.jpg)Penis
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

