Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000158.htm    
                                Description: Your child had hypospadias repair to fix a birth defect in which the urethra does not end at the tip of the penis. The urethra is the tube that carries urine from the bladder to outside the body. The type    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hypospadias repair - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000158.htm

# Hypospadias repair - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Your child had hypospadias repair to fix a birth defect in which the urethra
does not end at the tip of the penis. The urethra is the tube that carries
urine from the bladder to outside the body. The type of repair that was done
depends on how severe the birth defect was. This may be the first surgery for
this problem or it may be a follow-up procedure.

Your child received general anesthesia before surgery to make him unconscious
and unable to feel pain.

## What to Expect at Home

Your child may feel sleepy when first at home. He may not feel like eating or
drinking. He may also feel sick to his stomach or throw up the same day he had
surgery.

Your child's penis will be swollen and bruised. This will get better after a
few weeks. Full healing will take up to 6 weeks.

Your child may need a urinary catheter for 5 to 14 days after the surgery.

    * The catheter may be held in place with small stitches. The health care provider will remove the stitches when your child does not need the catheter anymore.
    * The catheter will drain into your child's diaper or a bag taped to his leg. Some urine may leak around the catheter when he urinates. There may also be a spot or two of blood. This is normal. 

If your child has a catheter, he may have bladder spasms. These may hurt, but
they are not harmful. If a catheter has not been put in, urinating may be
uncomfortable the first day orÂ two after surgery.

Your child's provider may write a prescription for some medicines:

    * Antibiotics to prevent infection.
    * Medicines to relax the bladder and stop bladder spasms. These may cause your child's mouth to feel dry.
    * Prescription pain medicine, if needed. You can also give your child acetaminophen (Tylenol) for pain. 

## Taking Care of Your Child

Your child may eat a normal diet. Make sure he drinks plenty of fluids. Fluids
help keep the urine clean.

A dressing with a clear plastic covering will be wrapped around the penis.

    * If stool gets on the outside of the dressing, clean it gently with soapy water. Be sure to wipe away from the penis. DO NOT scrub.
    * Give your child sponge baths until the dressing is off. When you do start bathing your son, use only warm water. DO NOT scrub. Gently pat him dry afterwards. 

Some oozing from the penis is normal. You may see some spotting on the
dressings, diaper, or underpants. If your child is still in diapers, ask your
provider about how to use two diapers instead of one.

DO NOT use powders or ointments anywhere in the area before asking your
child's provider if it is ok.

Your child's provider will probably ask you to take off the dressing after 2
or 3 days and leave it off. You may do this during a bath. Be very careful not
to pull on the urine catheter. You will need to change the dressing before
this if:

    * The dressing rolls down and is tight around the penis.
    * No urine has passed through the catheter for 4 hours.
    * Stool gets underneath the dressing (not just on top of it). 

Infants may do most of their normal activities except for swimming or playing
in a sandbox. It is fine to take your baby for walks in the stroller.

Older boys should avoid contact sports, riding bicycles, straddling any toys,
or wrestling for 3 weeks. It is a good idea to keep your child home from
preschool or daycare the first week after his surgery.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call the health care provider if your child has:

    * Persistent low-grade fever or fever over 101Â°F (38.3Â°C) in the week after surgery.
    * Increased swelling, pain, drainage, or bleeding from the wound.
    * Trouble urinating.
    * A lot of urine leakage around the catheter. This means the tube is blocked. 

Also call if:

    * Your child has thrown up more than 3 times and cannot keep fluid down.
    * The stitches holding the catheter come out.
    * The diaper is dry when it is time to change it.
    * You have any concerns about your child's condition. 

## References

Snodgrass WT, Bush NC. Hypospadias. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW,
Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 147.

Thomas JC, Brock JW. Repair of proximal hypospadias. In: Smith JA, Howards SS,
Preminger GM, Dmochowski RR, eds. _Hinman's Atlas of Urologic Surgery_. 4th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 130.

## Read More

    * Hypospadias
    * Hypospadias repair
    * Kidney removal

## Review Date 1/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Birth Defects
    * Penis Disorders

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

