Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001285.htm    
                                Description: Epispadias is a rare defect that is present at birth.Â In this condition, the urethra does not develop into a full tube. The urethra is the tube that carries urine out of the body from the bladder. The    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Epispadias

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001285.htm

# Epispadias

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Epispadias is a rare defect that is present at birth.Â In this condition, the
urethra does not develop into a full tube. The urethra is the tube that
carries urine out of the body from the bladder. The urine exits the body from
the wrong place with epispadias.

## Causes

The causes of epispadias are not known. It may occur because the pubic bone
does not develop properly.

Epispadias can occur with a rare birth defect called bladder exstrophy. In
this birth defect, the bladder is inside out and sticks through the wall of
the abdomen. Epispadias can also occur with other birth defects.

The condition occurs more often in boys than girls. It is most often diagnosed
at birth or soon afterward.

## Symptoms

Males will have a short, wide penis with an abnormal curve. The urethra most
often opens on the top or side of the penis instead of the tip. However, the
urethra may be open along the whole length of the penis.

Females have an abnormal clitoris and labia. The urethral opening is often
between the clitoris and the labia, but it may be in the belly area. They may
have trouble controlling urination (urinary incontinence).

## Exams and Tests

Signs include:

    * Abnormal opening from the bladder neck to the area above the normal urethra opening
    * Backward flow of urine into the kidney (reflux nephropathy, hydronephrosis)
    * Urinary incontinence
    * Urinary tract infections
    * Widened pubic bone 

Tests may include:

    * Blood test
    * Intravenous pyelogram (IVP), a special x-ray of the kidneys, bladder, and ureters
    * MRI and CT scans, depending on the condition
    * Pelvic x-ray
    * Ultrasound of the urinary system and genitals 

## Treatment

People who have more than a mild case of epispadias will need surgery.

Leakage of urine (incontinence) can often be repaired at the same time.
However, a second surgery may be needed.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Surgery can help the person control the flow of urine. It will also fix the
appearance of the genitals.

## Possible Complications

Some people with this condition may continue to have urinary incontinence,
even after surgery.

Ureter and kidney damage and infertility may occur.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have any questions about the appearance
or function of your child's genitals or urinary tract.

## Alternative Names

Congenital defect - epispadias

## References

Elder JS. Anomalies of the bladder. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW,
Schor NF, eds.Â _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 541.

Gearhart JP, Mathews R. Exstrophy-epispadias complex. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi
LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 139.

## Review Date 10/10/2017

Updated by: Jennifer Sobol, DO, urologist with the Michigan Institute of
Urology, West Bloomfield, MI. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network.
Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway,
Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Penis
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PenisDisorders_thumb.jpg)Penis
Disorders _Read more_

![Urethral
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UrethralDisorders_thumb.jpg)Urethral
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

