Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001281.htm    
                                Description: Paraphimosis occurs when the foreskin of an uncircumcised male cannot be pulled back over the head of the penis.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Paraphimosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001281.htm

# Paraphimosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Paraphimosis occurs when the foreskin of an uncircumcised male cannot be
pulled back over the head of the penis.

## Causes

Causes of paraphimosis include:

    * Injury to the area.
    * Failure to return the foreskin to its normal location after urination or washing. This is more common in hospitals and nursing homes.
    * Infection, which may be due to not washing the area well.

Men who have not been circumcised and those who may not have been correctly
circumcised are at risk.

Paraphimosis occurs most often inÂ boys and older men.

## Symptoms

The foreskin is pulled back (retracted) behind the rounded tip of the penis
(glans) and stays there. The retracted foreskin and glans become swollen. This
makes it difficult to return the foreskin to its extended position.

Symptoms include:

    * Inability to pull the retracted foreskin over the head of the penis
    * Painful swelling at the end of the penis
    * Pain in the penis

## Exams and Tests

A physical exam confirms the diagnosis. The health care provider will usually
find a "doughnut" around the shaft near the head of the penis (glans).

## Treatment

Pressing on the head of the penis while pushing the foreskin forward may
reduce the swelling. If this fails, prompt surgical circumcision or other
surgery to relieve swelling will be needed.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome is likely to be excellent if the condition is diagnosed and
treated quickly.

## Possible Complications

If paraphimosis is left untreated, it can disrupt blood flow to the tip of the
penis. In extreme (and rare) cases, this may lead to:

    * Damage to the penis tip
    * Gangrene
    * Loss of the penis tip

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Go to your local emergency room if this occurs.

## Prevention

Returning the foreskin to its normal position after pulling it back may help
prevent this condition.

Circumcision, when done correctly, prevents this condition.

## Images

    * ![Male reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1113t.jpg)Male reproductive anatomy

## References

Elder JS. Anomalies of the penis and urethra. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St.
Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 544.

McCammon KA, Zuckerman JM, Jordan GH. Surgery of the penis and urethra. In:
Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_.
11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 40.

McCollough M, Rose E. Genitourinary and renal tract disorders. In: Walls RM,
Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and
Clinical Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 173.

## Review Date 1/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Penis
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PenisDisorders_thumb.jpg)Penis
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

