Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002279.htm    
                                Description: The penis is the male organ used for urination and sexual intercourse. The penis is located above the scrotum. It is made of spongy tissue and blood vessels.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Penis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002279.htm

# Penis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The penis is the male organ used for urination and sexual intercourse. The
penis is located above the scrotum. It is made of spongy tissue and blood
vessels.

The shaft of the penis surrounds the urethra and is connected to the pubic
bone.

The foreskin covers the head (glans) of the penis. The foreskin is removed if
the boy is circumcised. This is often done shortly after birth, but can be
done later in life for various medical and religious reasons.

## Information

During puberty, the penis lengthens. The ability to ejaculate begins at around
age 12 to 14. Ejaculation is the release of sperm-containing fluid from the
penis during an orgasm.

Conditions of the penis include:

    * Chordee -- downward curve of the penis
    * Epispadias \-- urethra opening is on the top of the penis, rather than the tip
    * Hypospadias \-- urethra opening is on the underside of the penis, rather than at the tip
    * Palmatus or webbed penis -- penis is enclosed by the scrotum
    * Peyronie's disease \-- a curve during an erection
    * Buried penis -- penis is hidden by a pad of fat
    * Micropenis -- penis does not develop and is small
    * Erectile dysfunction -- inability to achieve or maintain an erection

Other related topics include:

    * Ambiguous genitalia
    * Penile prosthesis
    * Priapism

## Images

    * ![Male reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1113t.jpg)Male reproductive anatomy

## References

Elder JS. Anomalies of the penis and urethra. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW,
Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_.
21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 559.

Epstein JI, Lotan TL. The lower urinary tract and male genital system. In:
Kumar V, Abbas AK, Aster JC, eds. _Robbins and Cotran Pathologic Basis of
Disease_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 21.

Palmer LS, Palmer JS. Management of abnormalities of the external genitalia in
boys. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh
Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 146.

Ro JY, Divatia MK, Kim K-R, Amin MB, Ayala AG. Penis and scrotum. In: Cheng L,
MacLennan GT, Bostwick DG, eds. _Urologic Surgical Pathology_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 15.

## Review Date 4/2/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Penis
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PenisDisorders_thumb.jpg)Penis
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

