Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003166.htm    
                                Description: Penis pain is any pain or discomfort in the penis.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Penis pain

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003166.htm

# Penis pain

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Penis pain is any pain or discomfort in the penis.

## Causes

Causes may include:

    * Bladder stone
    * Bites, either human or insect
    * Cancer of the penis
    * Erection that does not go away (priapism)
    * Genital herpes
    * Infected hair follicles
    * Infected prosthesis of the penis
    * Infection under the foreskin of uncircumcised men (balanitis)
    * Inflammation of the prostate gland (prostatitis)
    * Injury
    * Peyronie disease
    * Reiter syndrome
    * Sickle cell anemia
    * Syphilis
    * Urethritis caused by chlamydia or gonorrhea
    * Bladder infection
    * Blood clot in a vein in the penis
    * Penile fracture

## Home Care

How you treat penis pain at home depends on its cause. Talk to your health
care provider about treatment. Ice packs may help ease the pain.

If penis pain is caused by a sexually transmitted disease, it is important for
your sexual partner to also be treated.

An erection that does not go away (priapism) is a medical emergency. Get to
the hospital emergency room right away. Ask your provider about getting
treatment for the condition causing priapism.Â You may need medicines or
possibly a procedure or surgery to correct the problem.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you notice any of the following:

    * An erection that does not go away (priapism). Seek immediate medical attention.
    * Pain that lasts for more than 4 hours.
    * Pain with other unexplained symptoms.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will do a physical exam and take a medical history, which may
include the following questions:

    * When did the pain start? Is pain always present?
    * Is it a painful erection (priapism)?
    * Do you feel pain when the penis is not erect?
    * Is the pain in all of the penis or just one part of it?
    * Have you had any open sores?
    * Has there been any injury to the area?
    * Are you at risk for exposure to any sexually transmitted diseases?
    * What other symptoms do you have? 

The physical exam will most likely include a detailed exam of the penis,
testicles, scrotum, and groin.

The pain can be treated once its cause has been found. Treatments depend on
the cause:

    * Infection: Antibiotics, antiviral medicine, or other medicines (in rare cases, circumcision is advised for long-term infection under the foreskin).
    * Priapism: The erection needs to diminish. A urinary catheter is inserted to relieve urinary retention, and medicines or surgery may be needed.

## Alternative Names

Pain - penis

## Images

    * ![Male reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1113t.jpg)Male reproductive anatomy

## References

Broderick GA. Priapism. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds.
_Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 28.

Levine LA, Larsen S. Diagnosis and management of Peyronie disease. In: Wein
AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 31.

Nickel JC. Inflammatory and pain conditions of the male genitourinary tract:
prostatitis and related pain conditions, orchitis, and epididymitis. In: Wein
AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 13.

## Review Date 1/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Penis
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PenisDisorders_thumb.jpg)Penis
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

