

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Tuberculosis (TB)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syndicate

# TB NOTES

Minus

Related Pages

![](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_19/images/banner.png)

**TB Notes 3, 2019**

### Notes from the Director

Dear Colleague:

![](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_19/images/Phil_1.jpg)

The past couple of months have been full of exciting updates from DTBE staff.
In early October, DTBE released   _Reported Tuberculosis in the United States,
2018_. The United States once again reported the lowest number of TB cases
(9,025) and the lowest incidence rate on record (2.8 cases per 100,000).
Although TB in the United States continues to decrease each year, the rate of
decrease remains low. We hope this report will be a useful tool in informing
and improving TB prevention and control activities. I want to especially thank
all the state and local health departments throughout the United States whose
staff collected and reported the data used in this publication.

As part of the ongoing TB Personal Stories series, DTBE released new stories
featuring 4 four people diagnosed and treated for TB disease or latent TB
infection. The stories of TB survivors can be a helpful motivational tool that
TB programs and health care providers can use to encourage patients to
complete treatment, and also a powerful tool to reach clinicians, policy
makers, and members of the public less familiar with TB. DTBE would like to
thank We Are TB, The National TB Controllers Association, and the Stop TB USA
for their contributions to this project.

This fall has also been an opportunity to meet and collaborate with many of
our partners and colleagues. DTBE staff recently traveled to Palau for the
Pacific Islands TB Controllers Association (PITCA) Conference, where TB
professionals, clinicians, and partners shared their cross-cutting and
disease-specific expertise in TB.  The Tuberculosis Trials Consortium (TBTC)
held their 44th Semi-Annual Meeting October 15-17th in Atlanta. The meeting
highlighted research on the diagnosis, clinical management, and treatment of
latent TB infection and TB disease.

As we enter the final months of the year, I continue to be inspired by your
dedication to the very important work you are doing every day in our efforts
to eliminate TB. I hope all of you have a safe, enjoyable, and productive
fall.

Philip LoBue, MD, FACP, FCCP  
Director

Division of Tuberculosis Elimination  
National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention

Open All Close All

Communications, Education, and Behavioral Studies Branch Updates

 **Communication Resources for the 2018 TB Surveillance Report**

CEBSB created several resources to support the release of the 2018 TB
surveillance report entitled  _Reported Tuberculosis in the United States,
2018_, including an infographic and web graphics with highlights from the
surveillance report. These resources support TB education and outreach to
clinicians, health care agencies, and community organizations.  TB control
programs can also use a customizable infographic template to highlight state
and local surveillance data.

![tb cases](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_19/images/tb_cases-
small.png)

This 2018 edition of  _Reported Tuberculosis in the United States_  marks a
milestone as the first TB surveillance report to be published exclusively
online, as part of CDC's Digital First Initiative to help audiences discover,
view, and share content more easily.

To learn more, visit the CDC TB website and follow us on Facebook and Twitter.



![personal stories](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_19/images/ps-
small.jpg)

**New Stories from the TB Personal Stories Series**

CEBSB is proud to share the personal stories of four people diagnosed and
treated for tuberculosis (TB) disease or latent TB infection. These new
stories are part of DTBE's ongoing TB Personal Stories series to help raise
awareness about TB in the United States. You can view the video, print, and
social media content for each story by visiting CDC's TB Personal Stories
website.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * **Tenzin:** Tenzin's treatment for multidrug-resistant TB disease lasted for over 2 years. With the help of his local and state TB programs, Tenzin completed the long and challenging treatment process. Tenzin's Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * **Kelcie:** As someone who was tested and treated for latent TB infection to prevent the development of TB disease, Kelcie encourages others to do the same. Kelcie's Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * **Laura:** Laura wants to increase TB awareness. She shares her story in both English and Spanish.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * **Kristi:** Like many people, Kristi thought TB could only affect the lungs. She was surprised when she was diagnosed with TB in her eye. Kristi's Story

**Why Are These Stories Important?**  
Many TB patients report feeling isolated and stigmatized through their
treatment. Hearing experiences from TB survivors can be a helpful motivational
tool that TB programs and health care providers can use to encourage patients
to complete treatment. Using patient stories in online, print, and social
media content is also a powerful tool to reach clinicians, policy makers, and
members of the public less familiar with TB.

**Who Helped Make These Stories?**  
DTBE would like to thank We Are TB, The National TB Controllers Association,
and the Stop TB USA for their contributions to this project. Over the past 5
years, these organizations have gathered a group of TB survivors to
participate in a communication training workshop at the annual NTCA
conference. DTBE has collaborated with survivors from these groups, as well as
those identified from other TB programs, to feature in our TB Personal Stories
series.



**Stay Connected to TB Materials - Subscribe to Find TB Resources**

![find tb resources](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_19/images/ftbr-
small.jpg)

Find TB Resources is a website that includes a searchable database of
materials from numerous national and international organizations. Find TB
Resources also delivers a monthly newsletter to keep subscribers informed
about featured TB resources and other updates. To receive the monthly
newsletter, please enter your email address at the following link.

If you have subscribed to the Find TB Resources newsletter in the past, please
ensure that your subscription is still active by entering your email address
here. The subscription is free of charge and will help you stay connected to
TB materials!

** **

Field Services Branch

 **2019 Pacific Islands TB Controllers Association (PITCA) Conference and TB
Surveillance Training**

On September 9-13, 2019, the Republic of Palau and Global TB Institute co-
hosted the Pacific Islands TB Controllers Association (PITCA) Conference and
TB Surveillance Training.  This event assembled TB experts from throughout the
Pacific Islands and U.S. to engage in learning and discussion on the
management and control of TB and provided training and networking
opportunities for TB professionals in the region.  There were 127 participants
at the conference, comprising of representatives from the six U.S.-affiliated
Pacific Islands (USAPI) jurisdictions - American Samoa, Commonwealth of the
Northern Mariana Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, Guam, Republic of
Palau, and the Republic of the Marshall Islands.  Partner agencies that also
participated included the Australian Respiratory Council, CDC, Diagnostic
Laboratory Services, Global TB Institute, National TB Controllers Association,
United Nations Development Programme, and the World Health Organization.

![field services branch](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_19/images/fsb-
small.jpg)

The conference convened plenary sessions in the morning and breakout sessions
in the afternoon, with separate tracks for laboratory staff, clinicians,
nurses and outreach workers, and program managers.

The initial plenary session included a video from a TB survivor who discussed
TB from the patient perspective and a keynote address from Dr. Stevenson
Kuartei, a local physician who is a Senator in Palau's Congress and who also
was a former Minister of Health.  Subsequent plenary sessions included
presentations focused on the themes of TB treatment, prevention, and
laboratory.  Breakout tracks provided an opportunity to take a deep-dive into
specific topics to address the training and education needs of the various
disciplines in attendance.

The conference included a tour of the Belau National Hospital and the
Communicable Disease Unit Clinic where TB patients receive care and treatment.
There was also a site visit to the Southern Community Health Center on the
island of Peleliu (population of 500), which was an opportunity for conference
participants to better understand the infrastructure and provision of health
services on this island.  Clinicians had the opportunity to speak with a
resident of Peleliu who is currently receiving treatment for Rifampin-
resistant TB disease.

![field services
branch](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_19/images/fsb2-small.jpg)

On September 16-18, 2019, the Republic of Palau hosted a TB Surveillance
Training following the 2019 PITCA Conference.  There were 27 participants at
the training, which included representatives from five of the USAPI
jurisdictions.  Faculty from the CDC Division of Tuberculosis Elimination
provided detailed instruction on how to interpret and properly complete each
of the 43 variables of the 2020 RVCT and the Multidrug-Resistant (MDR) TB
Supplemental Form.  The classroom-based training included facilitated group
discussions, interactive case studies, and opportunities for participants to
exchange best practices.  Educational resources and job aides were provided to
improve the accuracy and completeness of reporting TB cases to CDC.

Surveillance, Epidemiology, & Outbreak Investigations Branch Updates

 **Reported Tuberculosis in the United States, 2018**

Earlier this year, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)
released provisional 2018 surveillance data on reported tuberculosis (TB)
cases in the United States. The full report, entitled  _Reported Tuberculosis
in the United States, 2018_ _,_  is now available online.

Key findings:

![2019 survey](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_19/images/survey-
small.png)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * There were 9,025 TB cases reported in the United States in 2018, which represents a 0.7% decrease from 2017.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * The overall annual TB incidence decreased to 2.8 cases per 100,000.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * People born outside of the United States continue to be disproportionately affected, largely because they have developed TB disease from longstanding latent TB infection that occurred in their country of origin.

The United States continues to have one of the lowest TB case rates in the
world, and the 2018 case count represents the lowest number of TB cases on
record.  Still, too many people suffer from TB disease and our progress is too
slow to eliminate TB in this century. Ending TB will require a dual approach
of maintaining and strengthening current TB control priorities, while
increasing efforts to identify and treat latent TB infection in high-risk
populations.

**Estimates of Recent Transmission, 2015-2018**

![2019 stats](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_19/images/graph-
small.png)

The Division of Tuberculosis Elimination (DTBE) has provided state- and
county-level estimates of the numbers and proportions of genotyped TB cases
attributed to recent transmission since the publication of _Reported
Tuberculosis in the United States, 2016._  Using molecular surveillance data,
a TB case is attributed to recent transmission if a plausible source case with
a matching genotype and an infectious form of disease is identified in a
patient who is 10 years of age or older, resides within a 10-mile geographic
radius, and has a diagnosis within 2 years before the given case.

A stated goal of the provision of these estimates has been to help state and
local TB programs monitor trends in recent transmission, which may assist with
planning and prioritizing TB control activities.  At the national level, the
proportion of cases attributed to recent transmission has declined: 12.6% of
genotyped TB cases were attributed to recent transmission during 2017-2018
compared with 13.7% for 2015-2016. DTBE epidemiologists are planning more
detailed analyses to determine what might explain this apparent decline.

Additional information regarding DTBE's recent transmission estimates is
available _here _.__

_Submitted by Benjamin Silk, PhD, and Steve Kammerer, MBA_

Data Management, Statistics, and Evaluation Branch Updates

 **The National TB Program Objectives and Performance Targets for 2025**

In September 2019, the Division of Tuberculosis Elimination released the
national TB program objectives and performance targets for 2025. The national
objectives include decreasing TB incidence rates for both US-born (0.4 cases
per 100,000) and non-US--born populations (8.8 cases per 100,000), as well as
for US-born minorities (1.0 case per 100,000) and children less than five
years of age (0.1 cases per 100,000). The objectives incorporate key process
indicators for patient management, laboratory reporting, contact
investigations of infectious TB patients, and follow-up examination of
immigrants and refugees who recently arrived in the United States with Class B
notifications. The complete list of national objectives and targets can be
found via https://www.cdc.gov/tb/programs/evaluation/indicators/default.htm

Indicators for measuring progress toward reaching the national objectives were
established by the National TB Indicators Project (NTIP). Data reported to the
National TB Surveillance System on the Report of a Verified Case of
Tuberculosis (RVCT), the Aggregate Report for Program Evaluation (ARPE), and
the Electronic Disease Notification (EDN) system are used in NTIP to calculate
the indicators.

The 2025 national performance targets describe the level of success achieved
by the top 10% of TB programs in the United State. To determine the targets,
we used statistical models to find trends in NTIP data from 2010 through 2018.
State and local TB programs with fewer than 150 TB cases from 2016-2018 were
excluded. For each indicator, we developed a regression model to estimate the
90th percentile for each year, then used the fitted model to estimate the 90th
percentile in the year 2025. The 90th-percentile values reflect the projected
performance of the top 10% of TB programs in the United States in 2025.

TB program officials are encouraged to work closely with CDC Project Officers
and Evaluation Consultants to conduct evaluation studies and to develop
strategies to optimize performance to meet the targets.

_Reported by Kai H. Young_

** **

**Lessons Learned from TB Modeling through the NCHHSTP Epidemiologic and
Economic Modeling Agreement**

The first 5 years of the National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD,
and TB Prevention's epidemiologic and economic modeling cooperative agreement,
NEEMA, concluded at the end of September 2019. When asked what they learned
from their TB modeling experience, all three grantees determined based on
model results that TB elimination is a distant goal using current tools and
service provision levels; however, substantial progress can be achieved with
extensive scale-up of targeted testing and treatment (TTT) of latent TB
infection (LTBI) in non-US-born populations or with great improvements in
global TB control.

![neema logo](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_19/images/neema-
small.jpg)

The University of California's Consortium for Applied Prevention Economics
(CAPE) highlighted model findings that California TB cases could be cut in
half by 2024 with a 4-fold increase in TTT of non-US-born residents and of
persons with medical risks for progression. In addition, they estimated that
full implementation of the US Preventive Services Task Force Recommendationsi
or of the California TB Risk Assessmentii  would also prevent half of
projected TB cases in California within the first 10 years (over 9,500 TB
cases). Models by each grantee showed that TTT of non-US-born persons would be
most effective in making progress towards TB elimination, but that TTT of
persons with HIV (e.g., those having the highest progression rates) would be
most efficient.

Modelers from Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health (JHSPH)
emphasized that risk populations and their demographics differ by state, as
does TB transmission and reactivation, and consequent cost effectiveness of
TTT. Harvard University's Prevention Policy Modeling Lab (PPML) remarked that
comparing TB transmission models produced by each grantee applied to
California data helped to enhance understanding of uncertainties around TB
trends and the impact of interventions. Close collaboration with DTBE and
state TB controllers was invaluable to modeling efforts, according to JHSPH.

NEEMA model results have corroborated CDC's decision to focus on TTT for TB
elimination, extended prior CDC modeling  to 50 states and 20 counties, and
produced TB case and LTBI prevalence point estimates and prediction intervals
by population (including for some co-morbidities) that can assist TB programs
in planning for TB elimination.  The modeled scenarios produced powerful
results and interactive tools that could be used for advocacy:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Tabby 1, Harvard PPML US TB projections by scenario: https://ppmltools.org/tabby/external icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Tabby 2, Harvard PPML State-level TB projections by scenario: https://ppmltools.org/tabby2/external icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * JHSPH State-level historical TB rates by risk population: http://www.modeltb.org/tbheteroinc/index.htmlexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * JHSPH TB projections by scenario for CA, FL, NY, TX: http://modeltb.org/fourState/pa10yr.htmlexternal icon

While models relied greatly on National TB Surveillance System (NTSS) data to
which they were calibrated, additional data to reduce uncertainties are needed
on population dynamics, LTBI prevalence and TB incidence progression rates by
population, and on costs. DTBE encourages TB programs to publish programmatic
experiences to document the impact and cost of activities. DTBE also
encourages sharing of model results, specifically those on cost-effectiveness.

A current challenge is how to implement the modeled scenarios. Other key
questions are:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * How can we best reach persons at highest risk for TB for targeted testing and treatment? In the context of electronic health records (EHRs), how can we identify populations having the highest risks of progression?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * How can we compare interventions such as better diagnostics and tools/algorithms to rule out TB disease using EHRs?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * How can we predict who will accept or decline LTBI treatment?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * In the United States, what do we need to do to accelerate TB elimination that might differ from other contexts? The United States is a leader in TB elimination efforts and often sets the standards for other countries.

_Submitted by Suzanne Marks, MPH, MA_

Laboratory Branch Updates

Atanaska Marinova-Petkova, DVM, MS, PhD and Calin Chiribau, MS, PhD have
joined the Laboratory Branch as part of the Reference Laboratory Team (RLT).
As senior biologists, both Atanaska and Calin will serve as part of the
Molecular Detection of Drug Resistance (MDDR) service to perform testing for
the rapid detection of resistance-associated mutations in _Mycobacterium
tuberculosis_ , expand capacity of the clinical service, and contribute to
research studies to optimize molecular and growth-based assays for
implementation in a CLIA regulated and ISO accredited environment.

![lab team](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_19/images/lab-small.jpg)

Pictured here: Atanaska Marinova-Petkova, DVM, MS, PhD and Allison Kline, MS  
Not pictured: Calin Chiribau, MS, PhD

Dr. Marinova-Petkova obtained her DVM degree in 2004 and went on to obtain a
MS degree in Molecular Biology and Biotechnology in 2009 and PhD in
Epizootiology and Infectious Diseases in Animals in 2012. She has extensive
technical laboratory experience including virology, bacteriology, serology,
molecular biology, and animal models. Dr. Marinova-Petkova completed a
postdoctoral research appointment in the Department of Infectious Diseases at
the St. Jude's Research Hospital in Memphis before joining CDC as a Laboratory
Advisor/Specialist in 2016. In 2017, she was selected as a Laboratory
Leadership Service (LLS) fellow; a program in which she recently completed
with CDC's Zoonoses and Select Agent Laboratory in the Bacterial Special
Pathogens Branch.

Dr. Chiribau comes to DTBE/LB from the Florida Department of Health, Bureau of
Public Health Laboratories where he has worked in the mycobacteria laboratory
at various levels since 2013, including General Laboratory Supervisor and
Technical Lead.  In these positions, Dr. Chiribau led the evaluation and
implementation of molecular methods for rapid detection of drug resistance and
new growth-based drug susceptibility testing and identification methods.
Calin received his MS degree in 2002 in Molecular Genetics from Alexandru Iona
Cuza University in Romania and his PhD in 2005 in Molecular Biology from
Albert Ludwigs University in Germany.  He then completed post-doctoral
research fellowships at Emory University and Case Western Reserve University.

The DTBE/LB Applied Research Team also welcomed a new researcher in 2019.
Allison Kline, MS, recently joined the team as an ORISE Fellow.  This
fellowship will allow Allison to train with LB immunologists on state-of-the-
art technologies to contribute to expanding _Mycobacterium tuberculosis_
research in two main areas, host-directed therapies and drug resistance.  Ms.
Kline received her BS in Environmental Science from the University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill in 2016 and her MS in Environmental Health from
University of Washington School of Public Health in 2019.

DTBE/LB is proud to have these individuals join our staff of hard working and
innovative scientists.

_Submitted by Stephanie Johnston, MS_

Clinical Research Branch Updates

![tbtc logo](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_19/images/tbtc.png)

TBTC Study 37: Assessment of the Safety, Tolerability, and Effectiveness of
Rifapentine Given Daily for LTBI (ASTERoiD) (ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier:
NCT03474029) tests a shorter, simpler latent TB infection regimen. The trial
aims to compare a 6-week regimen of daily self-administered rifapentine with 2
or 3 rifamycin-based comparator regimens (3HP, 4R, 3HR), for the treatment of
drug-sensitive latent TB infection. It seeks to enroll at least 3,400 persons.
The trial opened for enrollment July 26, 2019: six participants have been
enrolled as of mid-August 2019.  Four TBTC sites are enrolling, and additional
sites are expected to open soon.

TBTC Study 35: Phase I/II Dose Finding and Safety Study of Rifapentine and
Isoniazid in HIV-Infected and HIV-Uninfected Children with Latent Tuberculosis
Infection (ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT03730181) aims to open in the
last quarter of 2019. Study 35 will evaluate tolerability and pharmacokinetics
of a new child-friendly formulation of isoniazid and rifapentine in children
aged 0-12 years, at 2 sites in South Africa. It will enroll about 72
participants.

TBTC Study 31/ACTG A5349: Rifapentine-containing Tuberculosis Treatment
Shortening Regimens (ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT02410772) completed
enrollment of 2,516 participants in October 2018; follow-up is continuing with
initial results expected in the second half of 2020. This large phase 3 trial
has been a successful collaboration between CDC's TBTC and NIAID/Division of
AIDS' Adult AIDS Clinical Trials Group (ACTG). Several significant sub-studies
are nested within the trial, which is expected to provide substantial
information on drug pharmacokinetics, biomarkers, and adherence effects.

DTBE has been partnering with the TB Control Program in New York City to
implement a randomized trial of electronic Directly Observed Therapy (DOT).
The trial compares smartphone-based video DOT (either real-time or recorded)
with traditional in-person DOT in new TB cases _(ClinicalTrials.gov
Identifier: NCT03266003).  _ Enrollment will conclude at the end of October,
and data collection efforts will conclude in January 2020.  In addition to
assessing adherence with each modality, the trial includes an economic sub-
study to evaluate relative costs of the 2 approaches to DOT.

TB Notes Subscription and Article Submission Process

To receive the TB Notes Newsletter, enter your email address at the bottom of
the TB Notes webpage. If you would like to submit an article or update in TB
Notes, please email John Parmer at bkz8@cdc.gov.

You can follow us on Twitter @CDC_TB and Facebook @CDCTB and sign up for email
updates through Adobe Campaign.

New CDC Publications

 **Armstrong LR** , **Winston CA** , **Stewart B** , **Tsang CA** , **Langer
AJ** , **Navin TR**. Changes in tuberculosis epidemiology, United States,
1993-2017\. Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 2019;23:797-804.

**Bonney W** , **Price SF** , **Miramontes R**. Design and implementation of
data exchange formats for molecular detection of drug-resistant tuberculosis.
AMIA Jt Summits Transl Sci Proc 2019;2019:686-95\. (Bonny, Public Health
Informatics Fellowship Program, assigned to DTBE).

**Cowger TL** , **Wortham JM** , **Burton DC**. Epidemiology of tuberculosis
among children and adolescents in the USA, 2007-17: an analysis of national
surveillance data. Lancet Public Health 2019;pii:S2468-2667(19)30134-3\. Epub
ahead of print.

Lienhardt C, **Vernon AA** , Cavaleri M, Nambiar S, Nahid P. Development of
new TB regimens: harmonizing trial design, product registration requirements,
and public health guidance. PLoS Med 2019;16:e1002915.

**Marks SM** , **Woodruff RY** , **Owusu-Edusei K** , **Asay GRB** , **Hill
AN**. Estimates of testing for latent tuberculosis infection and cost, United
States, 2013. Public Health Rep 2019:33354919862688. Epub ahead of print.
(Also from OD [Owusu-Edusei]).

Mase SR, Samron R, Ashkin D, Castro KG, Ryan S, Seaworth B, Chen L, Lardizabal
A, **Tuckey D** , Khan A, Posey DL, Chappelle C, Temesgen Z. Tuberculosis
regional training and medical consultation centers in the United States:
characteristics, outcomes, and quality of medical consultations, June 1,
2010-May 31, 2014. J Clin Tuberc Other Mycobact Dis 2019;17:100114.

Sharling L, **Marks SM** , Goodman M, **Chorba T** , Mase S. Rifampin-
resistant tuberculosis in the United States, 1998-2014\. Clin Infect Dis
2019;pii:ciz491. Epub ahead of print.

Shrestha S, Cherng S, **Hill AN** , **Reynolds S** , Flood J, Barry PM,
Readhead A, Oxtoby M, Lauzardo M, Privett T, **Marks SM** , Dowdy DW. Impact
and effectiveness of state-level tuberculosis interventions in California,
Florida, New York and Texas: a model-based analysis. Am J Epidemiol
2019;pii:kwz147. Epub ahead of print.

Sosa LE, **Njie GJ** , Lobato MN, **Morris SB** , Buchta W, Casey ML,
**Goswami ND** , Gruden M, Hurst BJ, **Khan AR** , Kuhar DT, Lewinsohn DM,
Mathew TA, **Mazurek GH** , Reves R, Paulos L, Thanassi W, Will L, Belknap R.
Tuberculosis screening, testing, and treatment of U.S. health care personnel:
recommendations from the National Tuberculosis Controllers Association and
CDC, 2019. Am J Transplant 2019;19:2383-7.

**Venkatappa TK** , **Punnoose R** , **Katz DJ** , Higgins MP, Banaei N,
Graviss EA, Belknap RW, **Ho CS** ; Tuberculosis Epidemiologic Studies
Consortium. Comparing QuantiFERON-TB Gold Plus with other tests to diagnose
Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection. J Clin Microbiol 2019;pii:JCM.00985-19\.
Epub ahead of print. (Punnoose, with Northrop Grumman, assigned to DTBE).

Wilson JW, Nilsen DM, **Marks SM**. Multidrug resistant tuberculosis in
patients with HIV: management considerations within high-resourced settings.
Ann Am Thorac Soc 2019. Epub ahead of print.

Zimba O, Tamuhla T, Basotli J, Letsibogo G, Pals S, Mathebula U, Mathoma A,
Serumola C, Ramogale K, **Boyd R** , Tran T, **Finlay A** , Auld A, Date A,
Alexander H, Chihota V, Agizew T. The effect of sputum quality and volume on
the yield of bacteriologically-confirmed TB by Xpert MTB/RIF and smear. Pan
Afr Med J 2019;33:110.

Footnotes

i U. S. Preventive Services Task Force, Bibbins-Domingo K, Grossman DC, Curry
SJ, Bauman L, Davidson KW, et al. Screening for Latent Tuberculosis Infection
in Adults: US Preventive Services Task Force Recommendation Statement. JAMA.
2016;316(9):962-9.

ii California Department of Public Health. California Adult TB Risk
Assessment.
https://www.cdph.ca.gov/Programs/CID/DCDC/CDPH%20Document%20Library/TBCB-CA-
TB-Risk-Assessment-and-Fact-Sheet.pdf

Page last reviewed: October 23, 2019

Content source: Division of Tuberculosis Elimination

home Tuberculosis

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Basic TB Factsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * How TB Spreads
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Latent TB Infection and TB Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Risk Factors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Exposure to TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB & HIV Coinfection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB and Diabetes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Terms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Personal Storiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Kristi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Laura
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Kelcie
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tenzin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mildred
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Shaka
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Kelly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Kim
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Emily
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jerry
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Kate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nauman
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nicole
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Thomas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Natalie
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Esteban and Danielle
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Deo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Kenni
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Rosalie and Faith
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Rick and Francene
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Santos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mabruka
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Liliana
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Martha
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tri
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Sarah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Testing & Diagnosisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Who Should be Tested
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Testing for TB Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Testing in BCG-Vaccinated Persons
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Screening and Testing of Health Care Personnel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Testing During Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Diagnosing latent TB infection and TB disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Treatmentplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Deciding When to Treat Latent TB Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Treatment Regimens for Latent TB Infection (LTBI)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Treatment for TB Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Adverse Events
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Treatment of Persons Living with HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Treatment and Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Treatment for Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Drug-Resistant TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Researchplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Epidemiologic Studies Consortiumplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Research Projects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Publications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Trials Consortiumplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Study Descriptions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Background
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Behavioral & Social Science Research
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Care Settingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Infection Control in Health Care Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Resources for TB Screening and Testing of Health Care Personnelplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * TB in Specific Populationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * African-American Communityplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Stop TB in the African-American Community Summit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Background
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Slideset
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Asian Community
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Correctional Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Homelessness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * International Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Health Disparities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Laboratory Informationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Drug Susceptibility Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * False-Positive Investigation Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Interim Laboratory Biosafety Guidance for XDR _Mycobacterium_ tuberculosis strains
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Model Performance Evaluation Program (MPEP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Rapid Molecular Testing to Detect Drug-Resistant TB in the USplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Executive Summary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Introduction
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Background on Tests for Molecular Detection of DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * General Considerations and Principles for a Molecular DR Testing Service
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Possible Scenarios and Scope of Testing for a Molecular DR Testing Service
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Research Needs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * General Recommendations of the Expert Panel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Communication Plan for the Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Recommendations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * References
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Panel Members and CDC Participants
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Appendix 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Appendix 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Appendix 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Uses of Nucleic Acid Amplification Tests for the Diagnosis of TBplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * General Considerations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * General Recommendations of the Expert Panel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Recommendations to ACET, CDC, DTBE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Data & Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Incidence in the United States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Reported TB in the US, 2018 Surveillance Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Trends in Tuberculosis 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tuberculosis in the United States, 2018 (Slide Set)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Archived Surveillance Reports and Slide Sets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2018 State and City Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Archived State and City Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Professional Resources & Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tools for Healthcare Providersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Interactive Core Curriculum on Tuberculosis: What the Clinician Should Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Resources for TB Programsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Centers of Excellence 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Publications & Productsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Patient and Public Materials
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Fact Sheetsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * General
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data & Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Drug-Resistant TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Infection Control & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB in Specific Populations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Testing & Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Vaccines & Immunizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidelinesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Contact Investigations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Control & Elimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Drug-Resistant TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Genotyping
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Infection Control & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Laboratory
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB & HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB in Specific Populations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Testing & Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Vaccines & Immunizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Guidelines by Date
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guides & Toolkitsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Aggregate Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TB Surveillance Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Core Curriculum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Effective TB Interviewing for Contact Investigation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Ethnographic Guides
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * False-Positive Investigation Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Forging Partnerships to Eliminate TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Guide to Application of Genotyping
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LTBI: A Guide for Primary Health Care Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Mantoux Tuberculin Skin Testing Products
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Report of Verified Case of Tuberculosis (RVCT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Self-Study Modules
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Contact Investigation Interviewing Skills Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB eDOT Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Understanding the TB Cohort Review Process
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Newslettersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 4, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 3, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 2, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 1, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 6, 2018Â 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 5, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 4, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 3, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 2, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 1, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 5, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 4, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 3, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 2, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 1, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 5, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 4, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 3, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 2, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 1, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Pamphlets, Brochures, Bookletsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Questions and Answers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Patient Education Series
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tuberculosis â Get the Facts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tuberculosis â The Connection between TB and HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 12-Dose Regimen for Latent TB Infection-Patient Education Brochure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Postersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Mantoux Tuberculin Skin Test Wall Chart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * World TB Day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Think TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Stop TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Reports & Articlesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Reports (MMWRs)_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * DTBE Authored Journal Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tuberculosis Laboratory Aggregate Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Slide Setsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Epidemiology of Tuberculosis Among Non-U.S.ââBorn Persons in the United States, 1993â2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Self-Study Modules on Tuberculosis, 1-5 Slide Sets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Tuberculosis (TB) in Correctional Settingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facilitator Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Introduction to TB Genotyping
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Core Curriculum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Epidemiology of Tuberculosis in Correctional Facilities, United States, 1993-2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Prevention and Control of Tuberculosis in Correctional and Detention Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Guidelines for Preventing the Transmission of M. TB in Health care Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Investigation of Contacts of Persons with Infectious TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Epidemiology of Pediatric Tuberculosis in the United States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Targeted Tuberculosis Testing and Treatment of Latent Tuberculosis Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Electronic Tools & Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Web-Based Courses & Webinarsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB 101 for Health Care Workersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB 101
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Interactive Core Curriculum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Program Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Content Syndication
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Infographicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Social Media Graphics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Customizable Take on TB Infographic with Instructions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Events
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * World TB Dayplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * U.S. TB Championsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2020 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2019 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2018 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2017 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2016 Supporting TB Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2016 Building Partnerships
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2016 Expanding Testing and Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2016 Focusing on Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2016 Maximizing Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Activities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Linksplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * State TB Control Offices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * About Usplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mission Statement and Activitiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * DTBE Strategic Plan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * National TB Program Objectives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Organization Chart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Advisory Groupsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Federal TB Task Force

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about TB Notes Newsletter page, enter your email
address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit





**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[GATS]: Global Adult Tobacco Survey
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[17 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[19 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 5:00 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 1:27 PM

