Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001300.htm    
                                Description: Erythroplasia of Queyrat is an early form of skin cancer found on the penis. The cancer is called squamous cell carcinoma in situ. Squamous cell cancer in situ can occur on any part of the body. This term    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Erythroplasia of Queyrat

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001300.htm

# Erythroplasia of Queyrat

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Erythroplasia of Queyrat is an early form of skin cancer found on the penis.
The cancer is called squamous cell carcinoma in situ. Squamous cell cancer in
situ can occur on any part of the body. This term is used only when the cancer
occurs on the penis.

## Causes

The condition is most often seen in men who have not been circumcised. It is
linked to the human papillomavirus (HPV).

## Symptoms

The main symptoms are a rash and irritation on the tip or shaft of the penis
that persists. The area is most often red and does not respond to topical
creams.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will examine the penis to diagnose the condition and
will perform a biopsy to make the diagnosis.

## Treatment

Treatment may include:

    * Skin creams such as imiquimod or 5-fluorouracil. These creams are used for several weeks to months.
    * Anti-inflammatory (steroid) creams.

If skin creams do not work, your provider may recommend other treatments such
as:

    * Mohs micrographic surgery or other surgical procedures to remove the area
    * Laser surgery
    * Freezing the cancer cells (cryotherapy)
    * Scraping away cancer cells and using electricity to kill any that remain (curettage and electrodesiccation)

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The prognosis for cure is excellent in most cases.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

You should contact your provider if you have rashes or sores on the genitalia
that do not go away.

## Images

    * ![Male reproductive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9658t.jpg)Male reproductive system

## References

Habif TP. Premalignant and malignant nonmelanoma skin tumors. In: Habif TP,
ed. _Clinical Dermatology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 21.

James WD, Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach MA, Neuhaus IM. Epidermal nevi,
neoplasms, and cysts. In: James WD, Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach MA, Neuhaus
IM, eds. _Andrews' Diseases of the Skin: Clinical Dermatology_. 13th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 29.

Mones H. Treatment of noncervical condylomata acuminata. In: Fowler GC, ed.
_Pfenninger and Fowler's Procedures for Primary Care_. 4th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 138.

## Review Date 7/12/2019

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Penis
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PenisDisorders_thumb.jpg)Penis
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

