Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000862.htm    
                                Description: Balanitis is swelling of the foreskin and head of the penis.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Balanitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000862.htm

# Balanitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Balanitis is swelling of the foreskin and head of the penis.

## Causes

Balanitis is most often caused by poor hygiene in uncircumcised men. Other
possible causes include:

    * Diseases, such as reactive arthritis and lichen sclerosus atrophicus
    * Infection
    * Harsh soaps
    * Not rinsing soap off properly while bathing
    * Uncontrolled diabetes

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

    * Redness of foreskin or penis
    * Other rashes on the head of the penis
    * Foul-smelling discharge
    * Painful penis and foreskin

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider may diagnose the problem with only an exam. However,
you may need skin tests for viruses, fungi, or bacteria. A skin biopsy may
also be needed. An exam by a dermatologist may be helpful.

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the cause of the balanitis.

    * Antibiotic pills or creams are used to treat balanitis that is caused by bacteria.
    * Steroid creams may help balanitis that occurs with skin diseases.
    * Anti-fungal cream will be prescribed if it is due to a fungus.

In severe cases, circumcision may be the best option. If you cannot pull back
(retract) the foreskin to clean it, you may need to be circumcised.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most cases of balanitis can be controlled with medicated creams and good
hygiene. Surgery is not needed most of the time.

## Possible Complications

Long-term swelling or infection can:

    * Scar and narrow the opening of the penis (meatal stricture)
    * Make it difficult and painful to retract the foreskin to expose the tip of the penis (a condition called phimosis)
    * Make it difficult to move the foreskin over the head of the penis (a condition called paraphimosis)
    * Affect the blood supply to the tip of the penis
    * Increase the risk of penile cancer

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Tell your provider if you have any signs of balanitis, including swelling of
the foreskin or pain.

## Prevention

Good hygiene can prevent most cases of balanitis. When you bathe, pull back
the foreskin to clean and dry the area under it.

## Alternative Names

Balanoposthitis

## Images

    * ![Male reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1113t.jpg)Male reproductive anatomy
    * ![Penis - with and without foreskin](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19093t.jpg)Penis - with and without foreskin

## References

Augenbraun MH. Genital skin and mucous membrane lesions. In: Bennett JE, Dolin
R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 106.

McCammon KA, Zuckerman JM, Jordan GH. Surgery of the penis and urethra. In:
Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_.
11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 40.

Pyle TM, Heymann WR. Balanitis. In: Lebwohl MG, Heymann WR, Berth-Jones J,
Coulson IH, eds. _Treatment of Skin Disease: Comprehensive Therapeutic
Strategies_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 22.

## Review Date 7/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Penis
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PenisDisorders_thumb.jpg)Penis
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

