Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001276.htm    
                                Description: Penile cancer is cancer that starts in the penis, an organ that makes up part of the male reproductive system.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Penile cancer

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001276.htm

# Penile cancer

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Penile cancer is cancer that starts in the penis, an organ that makes up part
of the male reproductive system.

## Causes

Cancer of the penis is rare. Its exact cause is unknown. However, certain risk
factors include:

    * Uncircumcised men who don't keep the area under the foreskin clean. This leads to buildup of smegma, a cheese-like, foul-smelling substance under the foreskin.
    * History of genital warts, or human papillomavirus (HPV).
    * Smoking.
    * Injury to the penis. 

The cancer usually affects middle age and older men.

## Symptoms

Early symptoms may include:

    * Sore, bump, rash, or swelling at the tip or on the shaft of the penis
    * Foul-smelling discharge beneath the foreskin

As the cancer advances, symptoms may include:

    * Pain and bleeding from the penis (may occur with advanced disease)
    * Lumps in the groin area from spread of the cancer to the groin lymph nodes
    * Weight loss
    * Difficulty in passing urine

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about your
health history and symptoms.

A biopsy of the growth is needed to determine if it is cancer.

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the size and location of the tumor and how much it has
spread.

Treatment for penile cancer may include:

    * Chemotherapy -- uses medicines to kill cancer cells
    * Radiation -- uses high-powered x-rays to kill cancer cells
    * Surgery - cuts out and removes the cancer 

If the tumor is small or near the tip of the penis, surgery may be done to
remove only the cancerous part of the penis where the cancer is found.
Depending on the exact location, this is called a glansectomy or partial
penectomy. Laser surgery may be used to treat some tumors.

For more severe tumors, total removal of the penis (total penectomy) is often
needed. A new opening will be created in the groin area to allow urine to exit
the body. This procedure is called a urethrostomy.

Chemotherapy may be used along with surgery. Â

Radiation therapy may be used along with surgery. A type of radiation therapy
called external beam therapy is often used. This method delivers radiation to
the penis from outside the body. This therapy is most often performed 5 days a
week for 6 to 8 weeks.

## Support Groups

Joining a support group where members share common experiences and problems
may help relieve the stress associated with diagnosis and treatment of cancer
of the penis.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome can be good with early diagnosis and treatment. Urination and
sexual function can often be maintained.

## Possible Complications

Untreated, penile cancer can spread to other parts of the body (metastasize)
early in the disease.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if symptoms of penile cancer develop.

## Prevention

Circumcision may decrease the risk. Men who are not circumcised should be
taught at an early age the importance of cleaning beneath the foreskin as part
of their personal hygiene.

Safer sexual practices, such as abstinence, limiting the number of sexual
partners, and using condoms to prevent HPV infection, may decrease the risk of
developing cancer of the penis.

## Alternative Names

Cancer - penis; Squamous cell cancer - penis; Glansectomy; Partial penectomy

## Images

    * ![Male reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1113t.jpg)Male reproductive anatomy
    * ![Male reproductive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9658t.jpg)Male reproductive system

## References

Heinlen JE, Culkin DJ. Cancer of the penis. In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO,
Doroshow JH, Kastan MB, Tepper JE, eds. _Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Sanders; 2014:chap 85.

National Cancer Institute website. Penile cancer treatment (PDQ) - health
professional version. www.cancer.gov/types/penile/hp/penile-treatment-
pdq#link/_1. Updated January 30, 2018. Accessed August 22, 2018.

## Review Date 7/26/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Penis
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PenisDisorders_thumb.jpg)Penis
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

