Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000771.htm    
                                Description: This article tells you what to do if you suspect a child has been sexually abused.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Sexual abuse in children - what to know

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000771.htm

# Sexual abuse in children - what to know

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

This article tells you what to do if you suspect a child has been sexually
abused.

## Information

One in four girls and one in ten boys are sexually abused before they turn 18.

Sexual abuse of children is any activity that the abuser does to get sexually
aroused, including:

    * Touching a child's genitals
    * Rubbing the abuser's genitals against a child's skin or clothing
    * Putting objects into a child's anus or vagina
    * Tongue kissing
    * Oral sex
    * Intercourse 

Sexual abuse can also happen without physical contact, such as:

    * Exposing one's own genitals
    * Having a child pose for pornography
    * Having a child look at pornography
    * Masturbating in front of a child 

## Signs of Sexual Abuse in Children

Suspect sexual abuse when children:

    * Tell you that they are being sexually abused
    * Have trouble sitting or standing
    * Won't change for gym
    * Have sexually transmitted diseases or become pregnant
    * Know about and talk about sex
    * Run away
    * Have adults in their lives that keep them from having contact with other adults
    * Keep to themselves and seem to have secrets 

Sexually abused children might have:

    * Bowel control problems, such as soiling themselves (encopresis)
    * Eating disorders (anorexia nervosa)
    * Genital or rectal problems, such as pain when going to the bathroom, or vaginal itch or discharge
    * Headaches
    * Sleep problems
    * Stomach aches 

Sexually abused children may also:

    * Use alcohol or drugs
    * Engage in high-risk sexual behaviors
    * Get poor grades in school
    * Have a lot of fears
    * Not want to do their normal activities 

## When to Contact Your Doctor

If you think a child has been sexually abused, get the child examined by a
health care provider.

    * Find a provider that knows about sexual abuse. Most pediatricians, family medicine providers, and emergency room providers have been trained to examine people that have been sexually abused.
    * Have the child examined right away or within 2 to 3 days of discovering the abuse. The signs of sexual abuse don't last long, and the provider may not be able to tell if you wait too long.

During the exam, the provider will:

    * Look for signs of physical and sexual abuse. The provider will check the child's mouth, throat, anus, and penis or vagina.
    * Do blood tests to check for sexually transmitted diseases and pregnancy.
    * Take photographs of any injuries, if needed.

## Treatment

Get the child any needed medical care. Also get mental health counseling for
the child. Active support groups that can help include:

    * Childhelp -- www.childhelp.org
    * Rape, Abuse & Incest National Network -- www.rainn.org

Know that providers, teachers, and child care workers are required by law to
report sexual abuse. If abuse is suspected, child protection agencies and the
police will investigate. The child must be protected from abuse. The child may
be placed with a non-abusing parent, another relative, or in a foster home.

## Alternative Names

Sexual abuse - children

## References

Carrasco MM, Wolford JE. Child abuse and neglect. In: Zitelli, BJ, McIntire
SC, Nowalk AJ, eds. _Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of Pediatric Diagnosis_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2018:chap 6.

Marcdante KJ, Kliegman RM. Child abuse and neglect. In: Marcdante KJ, Kliegman
RM, eds. _Nelson Essentials of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2019:chap 22.

US Department of Health and Human Services website. Child Welfare Information
Gateway. Identification of sexual abuse.
www.childwelfare.gov/topics/can/identifying/sex-abuse. Accessed November 15,
2018.

## Review Date 10/11/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Child Sexual Abuse

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

