Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001527.htm    
                                Description: Gender dysphoria occurs when a person feels deep discomfort and distress about the gender they were born with because it does not match their gender identity. For example, a person who was physically born    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Gender dysphoria

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001527.htm

# Gender dysphoria

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Gender dysphoria occurs when a person feels deep discomfort and distress about
the gender they were born with because it does not match their gender
identity. For example, a person who was physically born female instead feels a
deep inner sense of being male. This mismatch causes severe discomfort,
anxiety, and depression.

## Causes

The cause of gender dysphoria is unknown. Hormones in the womb, genes, and
cultural and environmental factors are thought to be involved.

## Symptoms

Gender dysphoria can occur in children and in adults. Symptoms vary by age.

Children may:

    * Insist that they are the other gender
    * Strongly want to be the other gender
    * Want to dress in the clothes of the other gender and resist wearing clothes of their biological gender
    * Prefer to act the role of the other gender in play or fantasy
    * Prefer toys and activities of the other gender
    * Strongly prefer to play with children of the other gender
    * Feel a strong dislike of their genitals
    * Want to have the physical characteristics of the other gender

Adults may:

    * Strongly want to be the other gender (or a gender different from the one they were born with)
    * Want to have the physical and sexual characteristics of the other gender
    * Want to be rid of their own genitals
    * Want to be treated like the other gender
    * Strongly believe that they have the feelings and reactions of the other gender

Both adults and children may feel a feel a deep distress that interferes with
school, work, social life, religious practice, or other areas of life. They
may become anxious, depressed, and even suicidal.

## Exams and Tests

Only health care providers trained to identify and work with people with
gender dysphoria should make a diagnosis.

The provider will take a medical history and do a psychiatric evaluation.
Gender dysphoria may be diagnosed if two symptoms or more last at least 6
months.

## Treatment

It is important to work with providers trained in working with and treating
people with gender dysphoria. The goal of treatment is to help the person
overcome the distress they feel. It often includes helping the person
transition to the gender they identify with.

Treatment for gender dysphoria may include:

    * Counseling to help the person understand their feelings and to provide support and coping skills
    * Couples or family counseling to help reduce conflicts, create understanding, and provide a supportive environment
    * Gender-affirming hormone therapy (sex hormone therapy)
    * Gender-affirming surgery (sex-reassignment surgery)

The person usually must have sex hormone therapy and have lived as their
chosen gender for at least a year before a decision is made about surgery.
There are two main types of surgery: one affects fertility, the other does
not. Not everyone chooses to have surgery, or they may choose only one type of
surgery. People choose the level of treatment that helps them feel most
comfortable.

Because of societal and family pressures, having gender dysphoria can affect a
person's mental well-being. It is important for the person to receive
counseling and support throughout and even after their transition.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Diagnosing and treating gender dysphoria early can reduce the chance of
depression, emotional distress, and suicide.

Treatment can relieve symptoms of gender dysphoria. However, reactions from
others to the person's transition can continue to create difficulties with
work, family, religious, and social life.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Make an appointment with a trained health care provider if you or your child
has symptoms of gender dysphoria.

## Alternative Names

Gender-incongruent; Transgender; TranssexualismÂ

## Images

    * ![Male and female reproductive systems](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9885t.jpg)Male and female reproductive systems

## References

American Psychiatric Association. Gender dysphoria. In: _American Psychiatric
Association. Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders_. 5th ed.
Arlington, VA: American Psychiatric Publishing. 2013:451-460.

Hembree WC, Cohen-Kettenis PT, Gooren L, et al. Endocrine treatment of gender-
dysphoric/gender-incongruent persons: an Endocrine Society clinical practice
guideline. _J Clin Endocrinol Metab_. 2017;102(11):3869-3903. PMID: 28945902
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28945902.

Shafer LC. Sexual disorders and sexual dysfunction. In: Stern TA, Fava M,
Wilens TE, Rosenbaum JF, eds. _Massachusetts General Hospital Comprehensive
Clinical Psychiatry_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 36.

White PC. Disorders of sexual development. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 233.

## Review Date 8/13/2018

Updated by: Ryan James Kimmel, MD, Medical Director of Hospital Psychiatry at
the University of Washington Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Transgender
Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GayLesbianBisexualandTransgenderHealth_thumb.jpg)Gay,
Lesbian, Bisexual, and Transgender Health _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

