Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000856.htm    
                                Description: Tularemia is a bacterial infection in wild rodents. The bacteria are passed to humans through contact with tissue from the infected animal. The bacteria can also be passed by ticks, biting flies, and mosquitoes.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Tularemia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000856.htm

# Tularemia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Tularemia is a bacterial infection in wild rodents. The bacteria are passed to
humans through contact with tissue from the infected animal. The bacteria can
also be passed by ticks, biting flies, and mosquitoes.

## Causes

Tularemia is caused by the bacterium _Francisella tularensis._

Humans can get the disease through:

    * A bite from an infected tick, horsefly, or mosquito
    * Breathing in infected dirt or plant material
    * Direct contact, through a break in the skin, with an infected animal or its dead body (most often a rabbit, muskrat, beaver, or squirrel)
    * Eating infected meat (rare) 

The disorder most commonly occurs in North America and parts of Europe and
Asia. In the United States, this disease is found more often in Missouri,
South Dakota, Oklahoma, and Arkansas. Although outbreaks can occur in the
United States, they are rare.

Some people may develop pneumonia after breathing in infected dirt or plant
material. This infection has been known to occur on Martha's Vineyard
(Massachusetts), where bacteria are present in rabbits, raccoons, and skunks.

## Symptoms

Symptoms develop 3 to 5 days after exposure. The illness usually starts
suddenly. It may continue for several weeks after symptoms begin.

Symptoms include:

    * Fever, chills, sweating 
    * Eye irritation (conjunctivitis, if the infection began in the eye)
    * Headache 
    * Joint stiffness, muscle pain 
    * Red spot on the skin, growing to become a sore (ulcer)
    * Shortness of breath
    * Weight loss

## Exams and Tests

Tests for the condition include:

    * Blood culture for the bacteria
    * Blood test measuring the body's immune response (antibodies) to the infection (serology for tularemia)
    * Chest x-ray
    * Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test of a sample from an ulcer 

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to cure the infection with antibiotics.

The antibiotics streptomycin and tetracycline are commonly used to treat this
infection. Another antibiotic, gentamicin, has been tried as an alternative to
streptomycin. Gentamicin seems to be very effective, but it has been studied
in only a small number of people because this is a rare disease. The
antibiotics tetracycline and chloramphenicol can be used alone, but are not
usually a first choice.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Tularemia is fatal in about 5% of untreated cases, and in less than 1% of
treated cases.

## Possible Complications

Tularemia may lead to these complications:

    * Bone infection (osteomyelitis)
    * Infection of the sac around the heart (pericarditis)
    * Infection of the membranes covering the brain and spinal cord (meningitis)
    * Pneumonia

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if symptoms develop after a rodent bite, tick
bite, or exposure to the flesh of a wild animal.

## Prevention

Preventive measures include wearing gloves when skinning or dressing wild
animals, and staying away from sick or dead animals.

## Alternative Names

Deerfly fever; Rabbit fever; Pahvant Valley plague; Ohara disease; Yato-byo
(Japan); Lemming fever

## Images

    * ![Deer ticks](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1119t.jpg)Deer ticks
    * ![Ticks](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1254t.jpg)Ticks
    * ![Tick imbedded in the skin](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2060t.jpg)Tick imbedded in the skin
    * ![Antibodies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9069t.jpg)Antibodies
    * ![Bacteria](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9095t.jpg)Bacteria

## References

Penn RL. _Francisella tularensis_ (tularemia). In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser
MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Disease, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 229.

Schaffner W. Tularemia and other _Francisella_ infections. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 311.

## Review Date 1/3/2019

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Animal Diseases and Your
Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AnimalDiseasesandYourHealth_thumb.jpg)Animal
Diseases and Your Health _Read more_

![Bacterial
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Bacterialnfection_thumb.jpg)Bacterial
Infections _Read more_

![Biodefense and
Bioterrorism](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BiodefenseandBioterrorism_thumb.jpg)Biodefense
and Bioterrorism _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

