Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007468.htm    
                                Description: Volcanic smog is also called vog. It forms when a volcano erupts and releases gases into the atmosphere.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Lung problems and volcanic smog

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007468.htm

# Lung problems and volcanic smog

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Volcanic smog is also called vog. It forms when a volcano erupts and releases
gases into the atmosphere.

Volcanic smog can irritate the lungs and make existing lung problems worse.

## Information

Volcanoes release plumes of ash, dust, sulfur dioxide, carbon monoxide, and
other harmful gases into the air. Sulfur dioxide is the most harmful of these
gases. When the gases react with oxygen, moisture, and sunlight in the
atmosphere, volcanic smog forms. This smog is a type of air pollution.

Volcanic smog also contains highly acidic aerosols (tiny particles and
droplets), mainly sulfuric acid and other sulfur-related compounds. These
aerosols are small enough to be breathed deep into the lungs.

Breathing in volcanic smog irritates the lungs and mucous membranes. It can
affect how well your lungs work. Volcanic smog may also affect your immune
system.

The acidic particles in volcanic smog can worsen these lung conditions:

    * Asthma
    * Bronchitis
    * Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)
    * Emphysema
    * Any other long-term (chronic) lung condition 

Symptoms of volcanic smog exposure include:

    * Breathing problems, shortness of breath
    * Coughing
    * Flu-like symptoms
    * Headaches
    * Lack of energy
    * More mucus production
    * Sore throat
    * Watery, irritated eyes 

STEPS TO PROTECT AGAINST VOLCANIC SMOG

If you already have breathing problems, taking these steps can prevent your
breathing from getting worse when you are exposed to volcanic smog:

    * Stay indoors as much as possible. People who have lung conditions should limit physical activity outdoors. Keep windows and doors closed and the air conditioning on. Using an air cleaner/purifier can also help.
    * When you do have to go outside, wear a paper or gauze surgical mask that covers your nose and mouth. Wet the mask with a solution of baking soda and water to further protect your lungs.
    * Take your COPD or asthma medicines as prescribed.
    * Do not smoke. Smoking can irritate your lungs even more.
    * Drink a lot of fluids, especially warm fluids (such as tea).
    * Bend forward at the waist slightly to make it easier to breathe.
    * Practice breathing exercises indoors to keep your lungs as healthy as possible. With your lips almost closed, breathe in through your nose and out through your mouth. This is called pursed-lip breathing. Or, breathe deeply through your nose into your belly without moving your chest. This is called diaphragmatic breathing.
    * If possible, leave the area where the volcanic smog is. 

EMERGENCY SYMPTOMS

If you have asthma or COPD and your symptoms suddenly get worse, try using
your rescue inhaler. If your symptoms don't improve:

    * Call 911 or another emergency number right away.
    * Have someone take you to the emergency room. 

Call your health care provider if you:

    * Are coughing up more mucus than usual, or the mucus has changed color
    * Are coughing up blood
    * Have a high fever (over 100Â°F or 37.8Â°C)
    * Have flu-like symptoms
    * Have severe chest pain or tightness
    * Have shortness of breath or wheezing that is getting worse
    * Have swelling in your legs or abdomen 

## Alternative Names

Vog

## References

Balmes JR, Eisner MD. Indoor and outdoor air pollution. In: Broaddus VC, Mason
RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory
Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 74.

Feldman J, Tilling RI. Volcanic eruptions, hazards, and mitigations. In:
Auerbach PS, Cushing TA, Harris NS, eds. _Auerbach's Wilderness Medicine_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 17.

Jay G, King K, Cattamanchi S. Volcanic eruption. In: Cittione GR, ed.
_Ciottone's Disaster Medicine_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap
101.

United States Geological Survey website. Volcanic gases can be harmful to
health, vegetation and infrastructure. volcanoes.usgs.gov/vhp/gas.html.
Updated May 10, 2017. Accessed April 9, 2018.

## Review Date 2/18/2018

Updated by: Denis Hadjiliadis, MD, MHS, Paul F. Harron Jr. Associate Professor
of Medicine, Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care, Perelman School of
Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. Also reviewed by David
Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Air Pollution](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AirPollution_thumb.jpg)Air
Pollution _Read more_

![Inhalation
Injuries](https://medlineplus.gov/images/InhalationInjuries_thumb.jpg)Inhalation
Injuries _Read more_

![Lung Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LungDiseases_thumb.jpg)Lung
Diseases _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

