Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000143.htm    
                                Description: Chemical pneumonitis is inflammation of the lungs or breathing difficulty due to inhaling chemical fumes or breathing in and choking on certain chemicals.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Chemical pneumonitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000143.htm

# Chemical pneumonitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Chemical pneumonitis is inflammation of the lungs or breathing difficulty due
to inhaling chemical fumes or breathing in and choking on certain chemicals.

## Causes

Many chemicals used in the home and workplace can cause pneumonitis.

Some common dangerous inhaled substances include:

    * Chlorine gas (breathed in from cleaning materials such as chlorine bleach, during industrial accidents, or near swimming pools)
    * Grain and fertilizer dust
    * Noxious fumes from pesticides
    * Smoke (from house fires and wildfires)

There are two types of pneumonitis:

    * Acute pneumonitis occurs suddenly after breathing in the substance.
    * Long-term (chronic) pneumonitis occurs after exposure to low levels of the substance over a long time. This causes inflammation and may lead to stiffness of the lungs. As a result, the lungs start to lose their ability to get oxygen to the body. Untreated, this condition can causeÂ respiratoryÂ failure and death.

Chronic aspiration of acid from the stomach and exposure to chemical warfare
can also lead to chemical pneumonitis.

## Symptoms

Acute symptoms may include:

    * Air hunger (feeling that you cannot get enough air)
    * Breathing that soundsÂ wet or gurgling (abnormal lung sounds)
    * Cough
    * Difficulty breathing
    * Unusual sensation (possibly burning feeling) in the chest 

Chronic symptoms may include:

    * Cough (may or may not occur)
    * Progressive disability (related to shortness of breath)
    * Rapid breathing (tachypnea)
    * Shortness of breath with only mild exercise 

## Exams and Tests

The following tests help determine how severely the lungs are affected:

    * Blood gases (measurement of how much oxygen and carbon dioxide are in your blood)
    * CT scan of chest
    * Lung function studies (tests to measure breathing and how well the lungs are functioning)
    * X-ray of the chest
    * Swallowing studies to check if stomach acid is the cause of pneumonitis

## Treatment

Treatment is focused on reversing the cause of inflammation and reducing
symptoms. Corticosteroids may be given to reduce inflammation, often before
long-term scarring occurs.

Antibiotics are usually not helpful or needed, unless there is a secondary
infection. Oxygen therapy may be helpful.

In cases of swallowing and stomach problems, eating small meals in the upright
position can help. In severe cases, a feeding tube in the stomach is needed.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome depends on the chemical, the severity of exposure, and whether the
problem is acute or chronic.

## Possible Complications

Respiratory failure and death can occur.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have trouble breathing after inhaling
(or possibly inhaling) any substance.

## Prevention

Only use household chemicals as directed, and always in well-ventilated areas.
Never mix ammonia and bleach.

Follow workplace rules for breathing masks and wear the right mask. People who
work near fire should take care to limit their exposure to smoke or gases.

Be careful about giving mineral oil to anyone who might choke on it (children
or the older people).

Sit up while eating and don't lie down right after eating if you have
swallowing problems.

DO NOT siphon gas, kerosene, or other toxic liquid chemicals.

## Alternative Names

Aspiration pneumonia - chemical

## Images

    * ![Lungs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1103t.jpg)Lungs
    * ![Respiratory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9248t.jpg)Respiratory system

## References

Blanc PD. Acute responses to toxic exposures. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst
JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 75.

Christiani DC. Physical and chemical injuries of the lungs. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 94.

Gibbs AR, Attanoos RL. Environmental- and toxin-induced lung diseases. In:
Zander DS, Farver CF, eds. _Pulmonary Pathology_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 18.

Tarlo SM. Occupational lung disease. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 93.

## Review Date 7/20/2018

Updated by: Allen J. Blaivas, DO, Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care, and
Sleep Medicine, VA New Jersey Health Care System, Clinical Assistant
Professor, Rutgers New Jersey Medical School, East Orange, NJ. Review provided
by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Chemical
Emergencies](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChemicalEmergencies_thumb.jpg)Chemical
Emergencies _Read more_

![Lung Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LungDiseases_thumb.jpg)Lung
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

