

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Tuberculosis (TB)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syndicate

# TB NOTES

Minus

Related Pages

![](/tb/publications/newsletters/notes/tbn_16/images/tbnotes-header.jpg)

**TB Notes 1** **2018**

### Notes from the Director

Dear Colleague:

Looking back over 2017, I would like to thank the staff of CDC's Division of
Tuberculosis Elimination (DTBE) and our partners in public health for their
collective efforts that led to another successful year. The accomplishments
and major activities of the year include the following:

In recognition of World TB Day in March, DTBE recognized 13 TB Elimination
Champions working to expand latent TB infection testing and treatment in their
communities. DTBE released preliminary TB surveillance data for the United
States. In November, the full surveillance report was released.  There were
9,272 reported TB cases, reflecting continued, albeit slow, progress in
combating TB.

The 2017 National TB Conference in April, sponsored by the National
Tuberculosis Controllers Association in collaboration with the Association of
Public Health Laboratories, was held in Atlanta, GA. The conference
highlighted innovative work in TB prevention, management, and care across the
country. It also paved a way forward as TB professionals came together to
discuss their challenges and share best practices on how to achieve TB
elimination in the United States.

This year DTBE developed creative communication and education tools, including
Implementing an Electronic Directly Observed Therapy (eDOT) Program: A Toolkit
for Tuberculosis (TB) Programsand a new video, "5 Things to Know About TB."
The video highlights the continuing problem of TB in the United States and the
importance of addressing latent TB infection though targeted testing and
treatment.  We also had the privilege of sharing the experiences of four TB
survivors through the TB Personal Stories project.  __

DTBE established the National Tuberculosis Molecular Surveillance Center
(NTMSC) at the Michigan Department of Health and Human Services (MDHHS) Bureau
of Laboratories. The center will be equipped to perform both conventional
genotyping and whole genome sequencing (WGS) for all isolates of
_Mycobacterium tuberculosis_.

The Tuberculosis Epidemiologic Studies Consortium (TBESC) developed and is
currently testing a new latent TB infection surveillance system - Surveillance
for TB Elimination Management System (STEMS). STEMS is a real-time case
management and surveillance system for latent TB infection currently used by
all TBESC health department sites and the Dr. Bates Outreach Clinic at the
Arkansas Department of Health.

Several long-time DTBE staff retired this year.  Frances Tyrrell, MPH, MT
(ASCP), SM--Laboratory Consultant; Wanda Walton, PhD, MEd-- Branch Chief for
the Communications, Education, and Behavioral Studies Branch (CEBSB); Glenda
Newell-- Statistical Assistant/Analytic Steering Committee Coordinator in the
Surveillance, Epidemiology, and Outbreak Investigations Branch (SEOIB);
Michael Fraser--Public Health Advisor in the Field Services Branch (FSB), and
Stefan Goldberg, MD-- Senior Medical Officer in the Clinical Research Branch
(CRB).

Thank you for everything you do in the fight to end TB.

Philip LoBue, MD, FACP, FCCP

Director

Division of Tuberculosis Elimination

National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention

Open All Close All

Communications, Education, and Behavioral Studies Branch Updates

 **TB Program Managers ' Course**

The overall purpose of the TB Program Managers' Course is to improve the
planning and managerial capabilities of new TB program managers throughout the
country. The course is designed for TB controllers, program managers, public
health advisors, and nurse consultants with programmatic responsibilities at
the state, big city, territory, or regional (within a state) level.  Course
participants occupy a TB program management position for at least 6 months but
no more than 3 years, and are nominated by the DTBE Program Consultant for
their area.

The course was held November 6-9, 2017 at the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention's Global Communications Center.  The 4-day in-person training was
divided into 18 sessions. The course emphasized the practical application of
planning, management, and evaluation concepts to the specific issues and
concerns of TB programs. Skills essential to TB program management were
presented, followed by learning exercises and polling questions that
encouraged participants to use knowledge learned.

The Communications, Education, and Behavioral Studies Branch (CEBSB) would
like to thank the faculty and participants of the 2017 TB Program Managers'
Course for making the course such a success. We appreciate the hard work of
the faculty in preparing the materials for their sessions and the
participants' enthusiasm during the course. An extra thank you goes out to the
participants who traveled long distances from the U.S.-affiliated Pacific
Islands.

**_Submitted by Molly Dowling, MPH, DTBE_**

** **

**New TB Personal Stories**

CEBSB is proud to share the personal stories of four TB survivors: Kate,
Nauman, Nicole, and Thomas.  These new stories are part of our ongoing TB
Personal Stories series to help raise awareness about TB in the United States.
You can view the video, print, and social media content for each survivor by
visiting CDC's TB Personal Stories website.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Kate became very sick while pregnant with her second child. She was diagnosed with TB and spent more than two months in the hospital.  One of her biggest worries during treatment was how the TB medicines would affect her baby. Video
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Nauman's treatment for drug-resistant TB lasted for a year and a half. Side effects from the medications and the length of treatment made completing treatment difficult. Video technology helped make his treatment much more convenient. Video
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Nicole was diagnosed with TB shortly after moving to another state. Being away from friends and family, the nurses from the health department gave her much needed support. Video
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Thomas was not sure what was going to happen when he was diagnosed with TB. He hopes his story will encourage TB patients and health care providers to talk about what to expect during treatment. Video

Many TB patients report feeling isolated and stigmatized throughout their
treatment. Hearing from TB survivors who share their experiences can motivate
and encourage patients to complete treatment. Using patient stories in online,
print, and social media content is a powerful tool to reach clinicians, policy
makers, and members of the public less familiar with TB.

DTBE would like to thank Kate, Nauman, Nicole, and Thomas for sharing their TB
stories.  We would also like to thank the National TB Controllers
Associationexternal icon, Stop TB Partnershipexternal icon, and We Are TB for
their contributions to this project.

**_Submitted by John Parmer, PhD, MPH, DTBE_**

Laboratory Branch Updates

 **Eighth Anniversary of Molecular Detection of Drug Resistance
Implementation**

DTBE implemented a clinical laboratory service, Molecular Detection of Drug
Resistance (MDDR), for U.S. TB Control Programs in September 2009. The service
uses Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) to amplify targeted genetic loci followed
by DNA sequencing to detect mutations associated with drug resistance.
Culture-based drug susceptibility testing (DST) is also performed. The service
has evolved from the original test panel performed on isolates of
_Mycobacterium tuberculosis_ , Sanger sequencing of genetic loci associated
with resistance to isoniazid, rifampin, fluoroquinolones, and second-line
injectable drugs to include sequencing for detection of resistance to PZA and
ethambutol, testing of NAAT-positive sediments from clinical specimens, and
incorporation of a pyrosequencing screen for resistance to isoniazid and
rifampin.

We tested 215 samples for MDDR in 2010. In 2016, we tested 710 samples (a 324%
increase), and in September 2017, we reached the milestone of 4,000 samples
tested since the inception of this important clinical service.  Turn-around
time for MDDR results is calculated quarterly; mean turn-around time has
consistently been 2 or 3 calendar days and, in general, more than 90% of
results are available within 4 days of sample receipt.

We strive to continually enhance the MDDR service.  In the past two years, we
have incorporated testing additional loci associated with isoniazid and
fluoroquinolone resistance and we are currently evaluating additional loci
purported to be associated with PZA resistance.  We are also in the process of
transitioning the service to a next generation sequencing platform and
redefining our testing algorithm for the eventual inclusion of whole-genome
sequencing.

We are very proud that the MDDR service has been adopted into the tuberculosis
testing algorithm in the United States. Offering this service has brought the
DTBE's Laboratory Branch closer to our Public Health Laboratory and
Tuberculosis Control Program partners. We appreciate feedback on the service
and we are always happy to answer questions. TBLab@cdc.gov

**_Submitted by Beverly Metchock, DrPH, D(ABMM), DTBE_**

Clinical Research Branch Updates

 **The Latest News from the TB Trials Consortium (TBTC)**

TBTC Study 31external icon (also known as ACTG A5349; "Rifapentine-containing
treatment shortening regimens for pulmonary tuberculosis: A randomized, open-
label, controlled phase 3 clinical trial") continues to enroll. As of December
7, 2017, the study had a total of 1,522 participants, 61% of target
enrollment.  The AIDS Clinical Trials Group (ACTG) network is collaborating
with TBTC, contributing substantially to enrollment. Twenty-two ACTG sites and
9 TBTC sites are open for enrollment.  Study 31 is evaluating a novel 4-month
regimen for active TB based on the use of daily, high-dose rifapentine.

TBTC Study 32external icon ("Prospective, randomized, blinded Phase 2
pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic study of the efficacy and tolerability of
levofloxacin in combination with optimized background regimen (OBR) for the
treatment of MDR-TB; Opti-Q") was implemented in sites in Cape Town, South
Africa, and in Lima, Peru. Enrollment and follow-up for the study are
complete.  The study is currently in the analysis phase.  Last month an
article on the trial design was published in _Trials_ :

Bouton, T. C., Phillips, P. P., Mitnick, C. D., Peloquin, C. A., Eisenach, K.,
Patientia, R. F., Diacon, A. H. (2017). An optimized background regimen design
to evaluate the contribution of levofloxacin to multidrug-resistant
tuberculosis treatment regimens: study protocol for a randomized controlled
trialexternal icon. Trials, 18(1), 563.

The main report from TBTC Study 33external icon ("An evaluation of adherence
to LTBI treatment with 12 doses of once weekly rifapentine and isoniazid given
as self-administered versus directly-observed therapy: iAdhere") has also been
recently published in the Annals of Internal Medicine.

Belknap R, Holland D, Feng PJ, Millet JP, Cayla JA, Martinson NA, Wright A,
Chen MP, Moro RN, Scott NA, Arevalo B, Miro JM, Villarino ME, Weiner M,
Borisov AS; TB Trials Consortium iAdhere Study Team. Self-administered Versus
Directly Observed Once-Weekly Isoniazid and Rifapentine Treatment of Latent
Tuberculosis Infection: A Randomized Trial.external icon Ann Intern Med. 2017
Nov 7. doi: 10.7326/M17-1150. [Epub ahead of print]. PMID: 29114781.

**_Submitted by Barbara DeCausey, MPH, MBA, DTBE_**

Data Management, Statistics, and Evaluation Branch Updates

 **TB Education and Training Network (TB ETN)/** **Program Evaluators Network
(PEN) Webinar Summary**

On December 7, 2017, the TB Program Evaluators Network (TB PEN) hosted a
webinar through the National Prevention Information Network titled "Reporting
for TB Infection from Diagnosis to Treatment Completion: Forging the
Surveillance System of the Future with Lessons from the Past" and was
presented by Andrew Tibbs.  Mr. Tibbs is a senior epidemiologist with the
Massachusetts Department of Public Health and chairs a latent TB infection
surveillance workgroup for the Society for Epidemiology in TB Control (SETC),
a subcommittee of the National Tuberculosis Controllers Association (NTCA).
Over 225 TB health professionals from around the United States participated in
the webinar. After his talk concluded, Mr. Tibbs facilitated a lively question
and answer session to address issues and concerns from the audience.

The goal of the webinar was to update participants on recent discussions
related to latent TB infection surveillance infrastructure including the
implementation of a standardized case definition for latent TB infection.  Mr.
Tibbs also shared lessons learned from the Massachusetts experience with
latent TB infection reporting and surveillance, and discussed the roles of and
opportunities for training, education, and evaluation.

The following are highlights from the webinar presentation:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * New approaches and strategies will need to be implemented in order to reach TB elimination in the United States.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * In Massachusetts, latent TB infection has been a reportable condition since the early 2000's.  However, latent TB infection is underreported in Massachusetts due to lack of education and training for providers, limited availability of follow up information, and no plan in place to evaluate or utilize data.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Lessons learned in Massachusetts include being clear with providers and clinics about expectations and utilization of data, keeping a narrow focus for defining at risk individuals, and building partnerships with the community and private providers.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * SETC, a subcommittee of NTCA, developed a workgroup to examine latent TB infection surveillance at the national level.  The workgroup currently has representation from 17 states, 2 counties, 1 city, and CDC.  The purpose of the workgroup is to consider latent TB infection surveillance and come to a representative consensus on the direction and priority of latent TB infection surveillance activities, and to share the agreed upon position with partners.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * In 2017, the Council for State and Territorial Epidemiologists adopted the SETC surveillance definition for latent TB infection, Establishing a Case Definition for Latent TB Infection (TB Infection).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Education and training play an integral role in latent TB infection surveillance.  Many people need training on topics related to latent TB infection surveillance.  There is a gap in training and education for latent TB infection surveillance in many jurisdictions.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Elimination of TB is possible with effective public health action against latent TB infection.  Measuring effectiveness of action will require building evaluation components into latent TB infection surveillance activities (including electronic surveillance systems which can capture information from a variety of sources), tools to measure the surveillance system and interactions with the surveillance system, updates to current systems that will allow us to measure reductions to disease transmission and attribute them to latent TB infection identification and treatment.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Decreasing latent TB infection is a difficult task that will not be possible without forethought in training, education, and evaluation.  However, we can learn from previous experiences and we have the advantage of building latent TB infection programs from the ground up.

TB PEN would like to thank Peri Hopkins, Health Education Specialist with
CEBSB in DTBE, and the TB Education and Training Network for their support of
this webinar.

To request an archived version of the latent TB infection surveillance webinar
please send an e-mail to tbpen@cdc.gov.

** **

**_Submitted by Rachel Yelk Woodruff, MPH, DTBE_**

New CDC Publications

 **October 2017**

Reaves EJ, Shah NS, France AM, Morris SB, Kammerer S, Skarbinski J, Bradley H.
Latent tuberculous infection testing among HIV-infected persons in clinical
care, United States, 2010-2012.external icon Int J Tuberc Lung Dis. 2017 Oct
1;21(10):1118-1126. doi: 10.5588/ijtld.17.0041. PMID: 28911355.

Sigal GB, Segal MR, Mathew A, Jarlsberg L, Wang M, Barbero S, Small N,
Haynesworth K, Davis JL, Weiner M, Whitworth WC, Jacobs J, Schorey J,
Lewinsohn DM, Nahid P. Biomarkers of Tuberculosis Severity and Treatment
Effect: A Directed Screen of 70 Host Markers in a Randomized Clinical
Trial.external icon EBioMedicine. 2017 Oct 24. pii: S2352-3964(17)30417-6.
doi: 10.1016/j.ebiom.2017.10.018. [Epub ahead of print] PMID: 29100778.

Tasillo A, Salomon JA, Trikalinos TA, Horsburgh CR Jr, Marks SM, Linas BP.
Cost-effectiveness of Testing and Treatment for Latent Tuberculosis Infection
in Residents Born Outside the United States With and Without Medical
Comorbidities in a Simulation Model.external icon JAMA Intern Med. 2017 Oct
16. doi: 10.1001/jamainternmed.2017.3941. [Epub ahead of print]  PMID:
29049814

Willby MJ, Wijkander M, Havumaki J, Johnson K, Werngren J, Hoffner S,
Denkinger CM, Posey JE. Detection of Mycobacterium tuberculosis pncA mutations
by the NIPRO Genoscholar™⋅PZA-TB II as compared to conventional
sequencingexternal icon. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2017 Oct 30. pii:
AAC.01871-17. doi: 10.1128/AAC.01871-17. [Epub ahead of print] PMID: 29084743

**November 2017**

Belknap R, Holland D, Feng PJ, Millet JP, Cayla JA, Martinson NA, Wright A,
Chen MP, Moro RN, Scott NA, Arevalo B, Miro JM, Villarino ME, Weiner M,
Borisov AS; TB Trials Consortium iAdhere Study Team. Self-administered Versus
Directly Observed Once-Weekly Isoniazid and Rifapentine Treatment of Latent
Tuberculosis Infection: A Randomized Trial.external icon Ann Intern Med. 2017
Nov 7. doi: 10.7326/M17-1150. [Epub ahead of print]. PMID: 29114781.

Boyd R, Ford N, Padgen P, Cox H. Time to treatment for rifampicin-resistant
tuberculosis: systematic review and meta-analysis.external icon Int J Tuberc
Lung Dis. 2017 Nov 1;21(11):1173-1180. doi: 10.5588/ijtld.17.0230. PMID:
29037299.

Mathema B, Andrews JR, Cohen T, Borgdorff MW, Behr M, Glynn JR, Rustomjee R,
Silk BJ, Wood R. Drivers of Tuberculosis Transmission.external icon J Infect
Dis. 2017 Nov 3;216(suppl_6):S644-S653. doi: 10.1093/infdis/jix354. PMID:
29112745.

**December 2017**

Hall EW, Morris SB, Moore BK, Erasmus L, Odendaal R, Menzies H, van der Walt
M, Smith SE. Treatment Outcomes of Children With HIV Infection and Drug-
resistant TB in Three Provinces in South Africa, 2005-2008.external icon The
Pediatric infectious disease journal. 2017 Dec 1;36(12):e322-7. doi:
10.1097/INF.0000000000001691.

Morris S, Miner M, Rodriguez T, Stancil R, Wiltz-Beckham D, Chorba T. _Notes
from the Field_ : Tuberculosis Control Activities After Hurricane Harvey --
Texas, 2017. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2017;66:1362-1363\. DOI
**:**/10.15585/mmwr.mm6649a5external icon  
Olano-Soler H, Thomas D, Joglar O, et al. Notes from the Field: Use of
Asynchronous Video Directly Observed Therapy for Treatment of Tuberculosis and
Latent Tuberculosis Infection in a Long-Term-Care Facility ― Puerto Rico,
2016-2017. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2017;66:1386-1387\. DOI:
10.15585/mmwr.mm6650a5external icon  
Thai LH, Nhat LM, Shah N, Lyss S, Ackers M. Sensitivity, completeness and
agreement of the tuberculosis electronic system in Ho Chi Minh City, Viet
Nam.external icon Public Health Action. 2017 Dec 21;7(4):294-8. Doi:
/10.5588/pha.17.0081.

Page last reviewed: January 12, 2018

Content source: Division of Tuberculosis Elimination

home Tuberculosis

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Basic TB Factsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * How TB Spreads
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Latent TB Infection and TB Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Signs & Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Risk Factors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Exposure to TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB & HIV Coinfection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB and Diabetes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Terms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Personal Storiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Kristi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Laura
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Kelcie
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tenzin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mildred
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Shaka
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Kelly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Kim
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Emily
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jerry
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Kate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nauman
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nicole
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Thomas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Natalie
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Esteban and Danielle
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Deo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Kenni
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Rosalie and Faith
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Rick and Francene
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Santos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mabruka
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Liliana
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Martha
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tri
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Sarah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Testing & Diagnosisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Who Should be Tested
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Testing for TB Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Testing in BCG-Vaccinated Persons
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Screening and Testing of Health Care Personnel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Testing During Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Diagnosing latent TB infection and TB disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Treatmentplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Deciding When to Treat Latent TB Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Treatment Regimens for Latent TB Infection (LTBI)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Treatment for TB Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Adverse Events
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Treatment of Persons Living with HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Treatment and Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Treatment for Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Drug-Resistant TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Researchplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Epidemiologic Studies Consortiumplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Research Projects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Publications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Trials Consortiumplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Study Descriptions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Background
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Behavioral & Social Science Research
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Health Care Settingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Infection Control in Health Care Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Resources for TB Screening and Testing of Health Care Personnelplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * TB in Specific Populationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * African-American Communityplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Stop TB in the African-American Community Summit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Background
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Slideset
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Asian Community
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Correctional Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Homelessness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * International Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Health Disparities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Laboratory Informationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Drug Susceptibility Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * False-Positive Investigation Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Interim Laboratory Biosafety Guidance for XDR _Mycobacterium_ tuberculosis strains
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Model Performance Evaluation Program (MPEP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Rapid Molecular Testing to Detect Drug-Resistant TB in the USplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Executive Summary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Introduction
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Background on Tests for Molecular Detection of DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * General Considerations and Principles for a Molecular DR Testing Service
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Possible Scenarios and Scope of Testing for a Molecular DR Testing Service
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Research Needs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * General Recommendations of the Expert Panel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Communication Plan for the Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Recommendations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * References
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Panel Members and CDC Participants
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Appendix 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Appendix 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Appendix 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Uses of Nucleic Acid Amplification Tests for the Diagnosis of TBplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * General Considerations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * General Recommendations of the Expert Panel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Recommendations to ACET, CDC, DTBE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Data & Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Incidence in the United States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Reported TB in the US, 2018 Surveillance Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Trends in Tuberculosis 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tuberculosis in the United States, 2018 (Slide Set)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Archived Surveillance Reports and Slide Sets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2018 State and City Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Archived State and City Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Professional Resources & Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tools for Healthcare Providersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Interactive Core Curriculum on Tuberculosis: What the Clinician Should Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Resources for TB Programsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * TB Centers of Excellence 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Publications & Productsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Patient and Public Materials
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Fact Sheetsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * General
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Data & Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Drug-Resistant TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Infection Control & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB in Specific Populations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Testing & Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Vaccines & Immunizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidelinesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Contact Investigations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Control & Elimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Drug-Resistant TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Genotyping
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Infection Control & Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Laboratory
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB & HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB in Specific Populations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Testing & Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Vaccines & Immunizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Guidelines by Date
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guides & Toolkitsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Aggregate Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TB Surveillance Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Core Curriculum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Effective TB Interviewing for Contact Investigation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Ethnographic Guides
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * False-Positive Investigation Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Forging Partnerships to Eliminate TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Guide to Application of Genotyping
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * LTBI: A Guide for Primary Health Care Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Mantoux Tuberculin Skin Testing Products
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Report of Verified Case of Tuberculosis (RVCT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Self-Study Modules
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Contact Investigation Interviewing Skills Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB eDOT Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Understanding the TB Cohort Review Process
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Newslettersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 4, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 3, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 2, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 1, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 6, 2018Â 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 5, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 4, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 3, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 2, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 1, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 5, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 4, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 3, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 2, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 1, 2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 5, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 4, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 3, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 2, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB Notes, No. 1, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Pamphlets, Brochures, Bookletsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Questions and Answers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Patient Education Series
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tuberculosis â Get the Facts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tuberculosis â The Connection between TB and HIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 12-Dose Regimen for Latent TB Infection-Patient Education Brochure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Postersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Mantoux Tuberculin Skin Test Wall Chart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * World TB Day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Think TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Stop TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Reports & Articlesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * _Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Reports (MMWRs)_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * DTBE Authored Journal Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Tuberculosis Laboratory Aggregate Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Slide Setsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Epidemiology of Tuberculosis Among Non-U.S.ââBorn Persons in the United States, 1993â2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Self-Study Modules on Tuberculosis, 1-5 Slide Sets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Tuberculosis (TB) in Correctional Settingsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facilitator Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Introduction to TB Genotyping
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Core Curriculum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Epidemiology of Tuberculosis in Correctional Facilities, United States, 1993-2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Prevention and Control of Tuberculosis in Correctional and Detention Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Guidelines for Preventing the Transmission of M. TB in Health care Settings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Investigation of Contacts of Persons with Infectious TB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Epidemiology of Pediatric Tuberculosis in the United States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Targeted Tuberculosis Testing and Treatment of Latent Tuberculosis Infection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Electronic Tools & Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Web-Based Courses & Webinarsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * TB 101 for Health Care Workersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TB 101
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Interactive Core Curriculum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Program Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Content Syndication
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Infographicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Social Media Graphics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Customizable Take on TB Infographic with Instructions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Events
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * World TB Dayplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * U.S. TB Championsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2020 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2019 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2018 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2017 CDC U.S. TB Elimination Champions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2016 Supporting TB Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2016 Building Partnerships
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2016 Expanding Testing and Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2016 Focusing on Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * 2016 Maximizing Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Activities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Linksplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * State TB Control Offices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * About Usplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mission Statement and Activitiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * DTBE Strategic Plan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * National TB Program Objectives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Organization Chart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Advisory Groupsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Federal TB Task Force

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about TB Notes Newsletter page, enter your email
address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit





**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[GATS]: Global Adult Tobacco Survey
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[17 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[19 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 5:00 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 1:27 PM

