Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000118.htm    
                                Description: Open gallbladder removal is surgery to remove the gallbladder through a large cut in your abdomen.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Gallbladder removal - open - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000118.htm

# Gallbladder removal - open - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Open gallbladder removal is surgery to remove the gallbladder through a large
cut in your abdomen.

## When You're in the Hospital

You had surgery to remove your gallbladder. The surgeon made an incision (cut)
in your belly. The surgeon then removed your gallbladder by reaching in
through the incision, separating it from its attachments, and lifting it out.

## What to Expect at Home

Recovering from open gallbladder removal surgery takes 4 to 8 weeks. You may
have some of these symptoms as you recover:

    * Incision pain for a few weeks. This pain should get better each day.
    * Sore throat from the breathing tube. Throat lozenges may be soothing.
    * Nausea, and maybe throwing up (vomiting). Your surgeon can provide you with nausea medicine, if needed.
    * Loose stools after eating. This may last 4 to 8 weeks. Rarely, the diarrhea can continue. Your health care provider can discuss treatment options with you.
    * Bruising around your wound. This will go away on its own.
    * A small amount of skin redness just around the edge of your wound. This is normal.
    * A small amount of watery or dark bloody fluid from the incision. This is normal for several days after surgery.

The surgeon may have left one or two drainage tubes in your belly:

    * One will help remove any fluid or blood that is left in your belly.
    * The second tube will drain bile while you recover. This tube will be removed by your surgeon in 2 to 4 weeks. Before the tube is removed, you will have a special x-ray called a cholangiogram.
    * You will receive instructions for caring for these drains before leaving the hospital. 

## Activity

Plan to have someone drive you home from the hospital. DO NOT drive yourself
home.

You should be able to do most of your regular activities in 4 to 8 weeks.
Before that:

    * DO NOT lift anything heavy enough to cause pain or pull at the incision.
    * Avoid all strenuous activity until you feel up to it. This includes heavy exercising, weightlifting, and other activities that make you breathe hard, strain, cause pain or pull on the incision. It may take several weeks for you to be able to do these kinds of activities.
    * Taking short walks and using stairs are OK.
    * Light housework is OK.
    * DO NOT push yourself too hard. Slowly increase how much you exercise.

Managing pain:

    * Your provider will prescribe pain medicines to use at home.
    * Some providers may put you on a regiment of alternating scheduled acetaminophen (Tylenol) and ibuprofen, using narcotic pain medicine as a backup.
    * If you are taking pain pills 3 or 4 times a day, try taking them at the same times each day for 3 to 4 days. They may be more effective this way.

Press a pillow over your incision when you cough or sneeze to ease discomfort
and protect your incision.

## Wound Care

Your incision may have been closed with dissolving suture under the skin and
glue on the surface. If so, you can shower the day after surgery without
covering the incision. Leave the glue alone. It will come off on its own in a
few weeks.

If your incision was closed with staples or stitches that need to be removed,
it may be covered with a bandage, change the dressing over your surgical wound
once a day, or sooner if it becomes dirty. Your provider will tell you when
you no longer need to keep your wound covered. Keep the wound area clean by
washing it with mild soap and water. You may remove the wound dressings and
take showers the day after surgery.

If tape strips (Steri-strips) were used to close your incision, cover the
incision with plastic wrap before showering for the first week. DO NOT try to
wash off the Steri-strips. Let them fall off on their own.

DO NOT soak in a bathtub, hot tub, or go swimming until your provider tells
you it is OK.

## Self-care

Eat a normal diet, but you may want to avoid greasy or spicy foods for a
while.

If you have hard stools:

    * Try to walk and be more active, but do not overdo it.
    * If you can, take less of the narcotic pain medicine your provider gave you. Some can cause constipation. You can use acetaminophen (Tylenol) or ibuprofen instead if it is OK with your surgeon.
    * Try a stool softener. You can get these at any pharmacy without a prescription.
    * Ask your provider whether you can take milk of magnesia or magnesium citrate. DO NOT take any laxatives without first asking your provider.
    * Ask your provider about foods that are high in fiber, or try using an over the counter fiber product such as psyllium (Metamucil).

## Follow-up

You will see your provider for a follow-up appointment in the weeks after your
gallbladder removal surgery.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

    * You have a fever above 101Â°F (38.3Â°C).
    * Your surgical wound is bleeding, red, or warm to the touch.
    * Your surgical wound has thick, yellow or green drainage.
    * You have pain that is not helped with your pain medicines.
    * It is hard to breathe.
    * You have a cough that does not go away.
    * You cannot drink or eat.
    * Your skin or the white part of your eyes turns yellow.
    * Your stools are a gray color. 

## Alternative Names

Cholelithiasis - open discharge; Biliary calculus - open discharge; Gallstones
- open discharge; Cholecystitis - open discharge; Cholecystectomy - open
discharge

## Images

    * ![Gallbladder](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8732t.jpg)Gallbladder
    * ![Gallbladder anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8789t.jpg)Gallbladder anatomy

## References

American College of Surgeons. Cholecystectomy: surgical removal of the
gallbladder. American College of Surgeons Surgical Patient Education Program.
www.facs.org/~/media/files/education/patient%20ed/cholesys.ashx. Accessed
October 10, 2018.

Jackson PG, Evans SRT. Biliary system. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers
BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 54.

## Read More

    * Acute cholecystitis
    * Chronic cholecystitis
    * Gallstones

## Patient Instructions

    * Getting out of bed after surgery

## Review Date 9/3/2018

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Gallbladder Diseases
    * Gallstones

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

