Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000217.htm    
                                Description: Chronic cholecystitis is swelling and irritation of the gallbladder that continues over time.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Chronic cholecystitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000217.htm

# Chronic cholecystitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Chronic cholecystitis is swelling and irritation of the gallbladder that
continues over time.

The gallbladder is a sac located under the liver. It stores bile that is made
in the liver.

Bile helps with the digestion of fats in the small intestine.

## Causes

Most of the time, chronic cholecystitis is caused by repeated attacks of acute
(sudden) cholecystitis. Most of these attacks are caused by gallstones in the
gallbladder.

These attacks cause the walls of the gallbladder to thicken. The gallbladder
begins to shrink. Over time, the gallbladder is less able to concentrate,
store, and release bile.

The disease occurs more often in women than in men. It is more common after
age 40. Birth control pills and pregnancy are factors that increase the risk
for gallstones.

## Symptoms

Acute cholecystitis is a painful condition that leads to chronic
cholecystitis. It is not clear whether chronic cholecystitis causes any
symptoms.

Symptoms of acute cholecystis can include:

    * Sharp, cramping, or dull pain in upper right or upper middle of your belly
    * Steady pain lasting about 30 minutes
    * Pain that spreads to your back or below your right shoulder blade
    * Clay-colored stools
    * Fever
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Yellowing of skin and whites of the eyes (jaundice)

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider may order the following blood tests:

    * Amylase and lipase. To diagnose diseases of the pancreas.
    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * Liver function tests. To evaluate how well the liver is working. 

Tests that reveal gallstones or inflammation in the gallbladder include:

    * Abdominal ultrasound
    * Abdominal CT scan
    * Gallbladder scan (HIDA scan)
    * Oral cholecystogram 

## Treatment

Surgery is the most common treatment. Surgery to remove the gallbladder is
called cholecystectomy.

    * Laparoscopic cholecystectomy is most often done. This surgery uses smaller surgical cuts, which result in a faster recovery. Many people are able to go home from the hospital on the same day as surgery, or the next morning.
    * Open cholecystectomy requires a larger cut in the upper-right part of the abdomen.

If you are too ill to have surgery because of other diseases or conditions,
the gallstones may be dissolved with medicine you take by mouth. However, this
may take 2 years or longer to work. The stones may return after treatment.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Cholecystectomy is a common procedure with a low risk.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Cancer of the gallbladder (rarely)
    * Jaundice
    * Pancreatitis
    * Worsening of the condition 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you develop symptoms of cholecystitis.

## Prevention

The condition is not always preventable. Eating less fatty foods may relieve
symptoms in people. However, the benefit of a low-fat diet has not been
proven.

## Alternative Names

Cholecystitis - chronic

## Patient Instructions

    * Gallbladder removal - laparoscopic - discharge
    * Gallbladder removal - open - discharge
    * Gallstones - discharge

## Images

    * ![Cholecystitis, CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1154t.jpg)Cholecystitis, CT scan
    * ![Cholecystitis - cholangiogram](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1155t.jpg)Cholecystitis - cholangiogram
    * ![Cholecystolithiasis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1156t.jpg)Cholecystolithiasis
    * ![Gallstones, cholangiogram](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1163t.jpg)Gallstones, cholangiogram
    * ![Cholecystogram](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9709t.jpg)Cholecystogram

## References

Theise ND. Liver and gallbladder. In: Kumar V, Abbas AK, Aster JC, eds.
_Robbins and Cotran Pathologic Basis of Disease._ 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 18.

Wang DQH, Afdhal NH. Gallstone disease In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ,
eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 65.

## Review Date 9/28/2017

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Gallbladder
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GallbladderDiseases_thumb.jpg)Gallbladder
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

