Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002930.htm    
                                Description: Open gallbladder removal is surgery to remove the gallbladder through a large cut in your abdomen.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Open gallbladder removal

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002930.htm

# Open gallbladder removal

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Open gallbladder removal is surgery to remove the gallbladder through a large
cut in your abdomen.

The gallbladder is an organ that sits below the liver. It stores bile, which
your body uses to digest fats in the small intestine.

## Description

Surgery is done while you are under general anesthesia so you will be asleep
and pain-free. To perform the surgery:

    * The surgeon makes a 5 to 7 inch (12.5 to 17.5 centimeters) cut in the upper right part of your belly, just below your ribs.
    * The area is opened up so the surgeon can view the gallbladder and separate it from the other organs.
    * The surgeon cuts the bile duct and blood vessels that lead to the gallbladder.
    * The gallbladder is gently lifted out and removed from your body. 

An x-ray called a cholangiogram may be done during your surgery.

    * To do this test, dye is injected into your common bile duct and an x-ray is taken. The dye helps find stones that may be outside your gallbladder.
    * If other stones are found, the surgeon may remove them with a special instrument. 

The surgery takes about 1 to 2 hours.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

You may need this surgery if you have pain or other symptoms from gallstones.
You may also need surgery if your gallbladder is not working normally.

Common symptoms may include:

    * Indigestion, including bloating, heartburn, and gas 
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Pain after eating, usually in the upper right or upper middle area of your belly (epigastric pain) 

The most common way to remove the gallbladder is by using a medical instrument
called a laparoscope (laparoscopic cholecystectomy). Open gallbladder surgery
is used when laparoscopic surgery cannot be done safely. In some cases, the
surgeon needs to switch to an open surgery if laparoscopic surgery cannot be
successfully continued.

Other reasons for removing the gallbladder by open surgery:

    * Unexpected bleeding during the laparoscopic operation
    * Obesity
    * Pancreatitis (inflammation in the pancreas)
    * Pregnancy (third trimester)
    * Severe liver problems
    * Past surgeries in the same area of your belly 

## Risks

Risks of anesthesia and surgery in general are:

    * Reactions to medicines
    * Breathing problems
    * Bleeding, blood clots
    * Infection

Risks of gallbladder surgery are:

    * Damage to the blood vessels that go to the liver
    * Injury to the common bile duct
    * Injury to the small or large intestine
    * Pancreatitis (inflammation of the pancreas)

## Before the Procedure

Your may have the following tests done before surgery:

    * Blood tests (complete blood count, electrolytes, liver and kidney tests)
    * Chest x-ray or electrocardiogram (ECG), for some people
    * Several x-rays of the gallbladder
    * Ultrasound of the gallbladder

Tell your doctor or nurse:

    * If you are or might be pregnant
    * Which drugs, vitamins, and other supplements you are taking, even ones you bought without a prescription

During the week before surgery:

    * You may be asked to stop taking aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), vitamin E, warfarin (Coumadin), and any other drugs that put you at a higher risk of bleeding during surgery.
    * Ask your doctor which drugs you should still take on the day of your surgery.
    * Prepare your homeÂ for any problems you might have getting around after the surgery.
    * You'll be told when to arrive at the hospital.

On the day of surgery:

    * Follow instructions about when to stop eating and drinking.
    * Take the drugs your doctor told you to take with a small sip of water.
    * Shower the night before or the morning of your surgery.
    * Arrive at the hospital on time.

## After the Procedure

You may need to stay in the hospital forÂ 3 toÂ 5 days after open gallbladder
removal. During that time:

    * You may be asked to breathe into a device called an incentive spirometer. This helps keep your lungs working well so that you do not get pneumonia.
    * The nurse will help you sit up in bed, hang your legs over the side, and then stand up and start to walk.
    * At first, you will receive fluids into your vein through an intravenousÂ (IV)Â tube. Soon after, you will be asked to start drinking liquids and eating foods.
    * You will be able to shower while you are still in the hospital.
    * You may be asked to wear pressure stockingsÂ on your legs to help prevent a blood clot from forming.

If there were problems during your surgery, or if you have bleeding, a lot of
pain, or a fever, you may need to stay in the hospital longer. Your doctor or
nurses will tell youÂ how to care for yourselfÂ after you leave the hospital.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most people recover quickly and have good results from this procedure.

## Alternative Names

Cholecystectomy - open; Gallbladder - openÂ cholecystectomy; Cholecystitis -
open cholecystectomy; Gallstones - open cholecystectomy

## Patient Instructions

    * Bland diet
    * Surgical wound care - open
    * When you have nausea and vomiting

## Images

    * ![Cholecystitis, CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1154t.jpg)Cholecystitis, CT scan
    * ![Cholecystitis - cholangiogram](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1155t.jpg)Cholecystitis - cholangiogram
    * ![Cholecystolithiasis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1156t.jpg)Cholecystolithiasis
    * ![Gallbladder](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19261t.jpg)Gallbladder
    * ![Gallbladder removal - Series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/7096t.jpg)Gallbladder removal - Series

## References

Jackson PG, Evans SRT. Biliary system. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers
BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 54.

Rocha FG, Clanton J. Technique of cholecystectomy: open and minimally
invasive. In: Jarnagin WR, ed. _Blumgart's Surgery of the Liver, Biliary
Tract, and Pancreas_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 35.

## Review Date 6/15/2019

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Gallbladder
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GallbladderDiseases_thumb.jpg)Gallbladder
Diseases _Read more_

![Gallstones](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Gallstones_thumb.jpg)Gallstones
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

