Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000264.htm    
                                Description: Acute cholecystitis is sudden swelling and irritation of the gallbladder. It causes severe belly pain.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Acute cholecystitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000264.htm

# Acute cholecystitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Acute cholecystitis is sudden swelling and irritation of the gallbladder. It
causes severe belly pain.

## Causes

The gallbladder is an organ that sits below the liver. It stores bile, which
is produced in the liver. Your body uses bile to digest fats in the small
intestine.

Acute cholecystitis occurs when bile becomes trapped in the gallbladder. This
often happens because a gallstone blocks the cystic duct, the tube through
which bile travels into and out of the gallbladder. When a stone blocks this
duct, bile builds up, causing irritation and pressure in the gallbladder. This
can lead to swelling and infection.

Other causes include:

    * Serious illnesses, such as HIV or diabetes
    * Tumors of the gallbladder (rare) 

Some people are more at risk for gallstones. Risk factors include:

    * Being female
    * Pregnancy
    * Hormone therapy
    * Older age
    * Being Native American or Hispanic
    * Obesity
    * Losing or gaining weight rapidly
    * Diabetes 

Sometimes, the bile duct becomes blocked temporarily. When this occurs
repeatedly, it can lead to  long-term (chronic) cholecystitis. This is
swelling and irritation that continues over time. Eventually, the gallbladder
becomes thick and hard. It does not store and release bile as well as it did.

## Symptoms

The main symptom is pain in the upper right side or upper middle of your belly
that usually lasts at least 30 minutes. You may feel:

    * Sharp, cramping, or dull pain
    * Steady pain
    * Pain that spreads to your back or below your right shoulder blade 

Other symptoms that may occur include:

    * Clay-colored stools
    * Fever
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Yellowing of skin and whites of the eyes (jaundice) 

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about your
symptoms. During the physical exam, you will likely have pain when the
provider touches your belly.

Your provider may order the following blood tests:

    * Amylase and lipase
    * Bilirubin
    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * Liver function tests

Imaging tests can show gallstones or inflammation. You may have one or more of
these tests:

    * Abdominal ultrasound
    * Abdominal CT scan or MRI scan
    * Abdominal x-ray
    * Oral cholecystogram
    * Gallbladder radionuclide scan

## Treatment

If you have severe belly pain, seek medical attention right away.

In the emergency room, you'll be given fluids through a vein. You also may be
given antibiotics to fight infection.

Cholecystitis may clear up on its own. However, if you have gallstones, you
will probably need surgery to remove your gallbladder.

Nonsurgical treatment includes:

    * Antibiotics you take at home to fight infection
    * Low-fat diet (if you are able to eat)
    * Pain medicines 

You may need emergency surgery if you have complications such as:

    * Gangrene (tissue death) of the gallbladder
    * Perforation (a hole that forms in the wall of the gallbladder)
    * Pancreatitis (inflamed pancreas)
    * Persistent bile duct blockage
    * Inflammation of the common bile duct 

If you are very ill, a tube may be placed through your belly into your
gallbladder to drain it. Once you feel better, your provider may recommend
that you have surgery.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most people who have surgery to remove their gallbladder recover completely.

## Possible Complications

Untreated, cholecystitis may lead to any of the following health problems:

    * Empyema (pus in the gallbladder)
    * Gangrene
    * Injury to the bile ducts draining the liver (may occur after gallbladder surgery)
    * Pancreatitis
    * Perforation
    * Peritonitis (inflammation of the lining of the abdomen) 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have:

    * Severe belly pain that does not go away
    * Symptoms of cholecystitis return

## Prevention

Removing the gallbladder and gallstones will prevent further attacks.

## Alternative Names

Cholecystitis - acute; Gallstones - acute cholecystitis

## Patient Instructions

    * Gallbladder removal - laparoscopic - discharge
    * Gallbladder removal - open - discharge
    * Gallstones - discharge

## Images

    * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
    * ![Cholecystitis, CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1154t.jpg)Cholecystitis, CT scan
    * ![Cholecystitis - cholangiogram](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1155t.jpg)Cholecystitis - cholangiogram
    * ![Cholecystolithiasis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1156t.jpg)Cholecystolithiasis
    * ![Gallstones, cholangiogram](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1163t.jpg)Gallstones, cholangiogram
    * ![Gallbladder removal - Series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/7096t.jpg)Gallbladder removal - Series

## References

Glasgow RE, Mulvihill SJ. Treatment of gallstone disease. In: Feldman M,
Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and
Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 66.

Jackson PG, Evans SRT. Biliary system. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers
BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery: The Biological Basis of
Modern Surgical Practice_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 54.

Wang DQ-H, Afdhal NH. Gallstone disease. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt
LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 65.

## Review Date 7/10/2019

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Gallbladder
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GallbladderDiseases_thumb.jpg)Gallbladder
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

