Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003595.htm    
                                Description: Bilirubin is a yellowish pigment found in bile, a fluid produced by the liver.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bilirubin - urine

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003595.htm

# Bilirubin - urine

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Bilirubin is a yellowish pigment found in bile, a fluid produced by the liver.

This article is about a lab test to measure the amount of bilirubin in the
urine. Large amounts of bilirubin in the body can lead to jaundice.

Bilirubin may also be measured with a blood test.

## How the Test is Performed

This test can be done on any urine sample.

For an infant, thoroughly wash the area where urine exits the body.

    * Open a urine collection bag (a plastic bag with an adhesive paper on one end).
    * For males, place the entire penis in the bag and attach the adhesive to the skin.
    * For females, place the bag over the labia.
    * Diaper as usual over the secured bag. 

This procedure may take a few tries. An active baby can move the bag causing
urine to go into the diaper.

Check the infant often and change the bag after the infant has urinated into
it. Drain the urine from the bag into the container provided by your health
care provider.

Deliver the sample to the laboratory or to your provider as soon as possible.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Many medicines can interfere with urine test results.

    * Your provider will tell you if you need to stop taking any medicines before you have this test.
    * DO NOT stop or change your medicines without first talking to your provider. 

## How the Test will Feel

The test involves only normal urination, and there is no discomfort.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test may be done to help diagnose liver or gallbladder problems.

## Normal Results

Bilirubin is not normally found in the urine.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Increased levels of bilirubin in the urine may be due to:

    * Biliary tract disease
    * Cirrhosis
    * Gallstones in the biliary tract
    * Hepatitis
    * Liver disease
    * Tumors of the liver or gallbladder 

## Considerations

Bilirubin can break down in light. That is why babies with jaundice are
sometimes placed under blue fluorescent lamps.

## Alternative Names

Conjugated bilirubin - urine; Direct bilirubin - urine

## Images

    * ![Male urinary system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10022t.jpg)Male urinary system

## References

Berk PD, Korenblat KM. Approach to the patient with jaundice or abnormal liver
test results. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 147.

Dean AJ, Lee DC. Bedside laboratory and microbiologic procedures. In: Roberts
JR, Custalow CB, Thomsen TW, eds. _Roberts and Hedges' Clinical Procedures in
Emergency Medicine and Acute Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 67.

Riley RS, McPherson RA. Basic examination of urine. In: McPherson RA, Pincus
MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_.
23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 28.

## Review Date 5/6/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Gallbladder
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GallbladderDiseases_thumb.jpg)Gallbladder
Diseases _Read more_

![Jaundice](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Jaundice_thumb.jpg)Jaundice _Read
more_

![Urinalysis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Urinalysis_thumb.jpg)Urinalysis
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

