Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000117.htm    
                                Description: Laparoscopic gallbladder removal is surgery to remove the gallbladder using a medical device called a laparoscope.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Gallbladder removal - laparoscopic - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000117.htm

# Gallbladder removal - laparoscopic - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Laparoscopic gallbladder removal is surgery to remove the gallbladder using a
medical device called a laparoscope.

## When You're in the Hospital

You had a procedure called a laparoscopic cholecystectomy. Your doctor made 1
to 4 small cuts in your belly and used a special instrument called a
laparoscope to take out your gallbladder.

## What to Expect at Home

Recovering from laparoscopic cholecystectomy will take up to 6 weeks for most
people. You may be back to most normal activities in a week or two, but it can
take several weeks to return to your normal energy level. You may have some of
these symptoms as you recover:

    * Pain in your belly. You may also feel pain in one or both shoulders. This pain comes from the gas still left in your belly after the surgery. The pain should ease over several days to a week.
    * A sore throat from the breathing tube. Throat lozenges may be soothing.
    * Nausea and maybe throwing up. Your surgeon can provide you with nausea medicine if needed.
    * Loose stools after eating. This may last 4 to 8 weeks. However, in some cases it can last longer.
    * Bruising around your wounds. This will go away on its own.
    * Skin redness around your wounds. This is normal if it is just around the incision.

## Activity

Start walking after surgery. Begin your everyday activities as soon as you
feel up to it. Move around the house and shower, and use the stairs during
your first week home. If it hurts when you do something, stop doing that
activity.

You may be able to drive after a week or so if you are not taking strong pain
drugs (narcotics) and if you can move quickly without being hampered by pain
if you need to react in an emergency. Don't do any strenuous activity or lift
anything heavy for at least a couple of weeks. At any time, if any activity
causes pain or pulls on the incisions, just don't do it.

You may be able to go back to a desk job after a week depending upon how much
pain you are having and how energetic you feel. Talk to your health care
provider if your work is physical.

## Wound Care

If sutures, staples, or glue were used to close your skin, you may take off
the wound dressings and take a shower the day after surgery.

If tape strips (Steri-strips) were used to close your skin, cover the wounds
with plastic wrap before showering for the first week after surgery. DO NOT
try to wash the Steri-strips off. Let them fall off on their own.

DO NOT soak in a bathtub or hot tub, or go swimming, until your doctor tells
you it is OK.

## Diet

Eat a high-fiber diet. Drink 8 to 10 glasses of water every day to help ease
bowel movements. You may want to avoid greasy or spicy foods for a while.

## Follow-up

Go for a follow-up visit with your provider 1 to 2 weeks after your surgery.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

    * Your temperature is above 101Â°F (38.3Â°C).
    * Your surgical wounds are bleeding, red or warm to the touch or you have a thick, yellow or green drainage.
    * You have pain that is not helped with your pain medicines.
    * It is hard to breathe.
    * You have a cough that does not go away.
    * You cannot drink or eat.
    * Your skin or the white part of your eyes turns yellow.
    * Your stools are a gray color. 

## Alternative Names

Cholecystectomy laparoscopic - discharge; Cholelithiasis - laparoscopic
discharge; Biliary calculus - laparoscopic discharge; Gallstones -
laparoscopic discharge; Cholecystitis - laparoscopic discharge

## Images

    * ![Gallbladder](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8732t.jpg)Gallbladder
    * ![Gallbladder anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8789t.jpg)Gallbladder anatomy
    * ![Laparoscopic surgery - series - Incision](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/15883t.jpg)Laparoscopic surgery - series

## References

American College of Surgeons. Cholecystectomy: surgical removal of the
gallbladder. American College of Surgeons Surgical Patient Education Program.
www.facs.org/~/media/files/education/patient%20ed/cholesys.ashx. Accessed
October 9, 2018.

Brenner P, Kautz DD. Postoperative care of patients undergoing same-day
laparoscopic cholecystectomy. _AORN J_. 2015;102(1):16-29. PMID: 26119606
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26119606.

Jackson PG, Evans SRT. Biliary system. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers
BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 54.

## Read More

    * Acute cholecystitis
    * Chronic cholecystitis
    * Gallstones

## Review Date 9/3/2018

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Gallbladder Diseases
    * Gallstones

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

