Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003777.htm    
                                Description: Abdominal ultrasound is a type of imaging test. It is used to look at organs in the abdomen, including the liver, gallbladder, spleen, pancreas, and kidneys. The blood vessels that lead to some of these    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Abdominal ultrasound

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003777.htm

# Abdominal ultrasound

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Abdominal ultrasound is a type of imaging test. It is used to look at organs
in the abdomen, including the liver, gallbladder, spleen, pancreas, and
kidneys. The blood vessels that lead to some of these organs, such as the
inferior vena cava and aorta, can also be examined with ultrasound.

## How the Test is Performed

An ultrasound machine makes images of organs and structures inside the body.
The machine sends out high-frequency sound waves that reflect off body
structures. A computer receives these waves and uses them to create a picture.
Unlike with x-rays or CT scans, this test does not expose you to ionizing
radiation.

You will be lying down for the procedure. A clear, water-based conducting gel
is applied to the skin over the abdomen. This helps with the transmission of
the sound waves. A handheld probe called a transducer is then moved over the
abdomen.

You may need to change position so that the health care provider can look at
different areas. You may also need to hold your breath for short periods
during the exam.

Most of the time, the test takes less than 30 minutes.

## How to Prepare for the Test

How you will prepare for the test depends on the problem. You will likely be
asked not to eat or drink for several hours before the exam. Your provider
will go over what you need to do.

## How the Test will Feel

There is little discomfort. The conducting gel may feel a little cold and wet.

## Why the Test is Performed

You may have this test to:

    * Find the cause of abdominal pain
    * Find the cause of kidney infections
    * Diagnose and monitor tumors and cancers
    * Diagnose or treat ascites
    * Learn why there is swelling of an abdominal organ
    * Look for damage after an injury
    * Look for stones in the gallbladder or kidney
    * Look for the cause of abnormal blood tests such as liver function tests or kidney tests
    * Look for the cause of a fever 

The reason for the test will depend on your symptoms.

## Normal Results

The organs examined appear normal.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

The meaning of abnormal results depends on the organ being examined and the
type of problem. Talk to your provider if you have any questions or concerns.

An abdominal ultrasound can indicate conditions such as:

    * Abdominal aortic aneurysm
    * Abscess
    * Appendicitis
    * Cholecystitis
    * Gallstones
    * Hydronephrosis
    * Kidney stones
    * Pancreatitis (inflammation in pancreas)
    * Spleen enlargement (splenomegaly)
    * Portal hypertension
    * Liver tumors
    * Obstruction of bile ducts
    * Cirrhosis

## Risks

There is no known risk. You are not exposed to ionizing radiation.

## Alternative Names

Ultrasound - abdomen; Abdominal sonogram; Right upper quadrant sonogram

## Images

    * ![Abdominal ultrasound](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1058t.jpg)Abdominal ultrasound
    * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
    * ![Kidney anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1101t.jpg)Kidney anatomy
    * ![Kidney - blood and urine flow](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1704t.jpg)Kidney - blood and urine flow
    * ![Abdominal ultrasound](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8607t.jpg)Abdominal ultrasound

## References

Chen L. Abdominal ultrasound imaging. In: Sahani DV, Samir AE, eds. _Abdominal
Imaging_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 3.

Cosgrove DO, Eckersley RJ, Harvey CJ, Lim A. Ultrasound. In: Adam A, Dixon AK,
Gillard JH, Schaefer-Prokop CM, eds. _Grainger & Allison's Diagnostic
Radiology_. 6th ed. New York, NY: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone; 2015:chap 3.

Kimberly HH, Stone MB. Emergency ultrasound. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap e5.

Kim DH, Pickhardt PJ. Diagnostic imaging procedures in gastroenterology. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 133.

Wilson SR. The gastrointestinal tract. In: Rumack CM, Levine D, eds.
_Diagnostic Ultrasound_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 8.

## Review Date 6/25/2018

Updated by: Jason Levy, MD, Northside Radiology Associates, Atlanta, GA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Photograph of a woman clutching her stomach in
pain](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pain_thumb.jpg)Abdominal Pain _Read more_

![Aneurysms](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AneurysmsandAorticAneurysm_thumb.jpg)Aortic
Aneurysm _Read more_

![Appendicitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Appendicitis2_thumb.jpg)Appendicitis
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

