Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007371.htm    
                                Description: Laparoscopic gallbladder removal is surgery to remove the gallbladder using a medical device called a laparoscope.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Laparoscopic gallbladder removal

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007371.htm

# Laparoscopic gallbladder removal

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Laparoscopic gallbladder removal is surgery to remove the gallbladder using a
medical device called a laparoscope.

The gallbladder is an organ that sits below the liver. It stores bile, which
your body uses to digest fats in the small intestine.

## Description

Surgery using a laparoscope is the most common way to remove the gallbladder.
A laparoscope is a thin, lighted tube that lets the doctor see inside your
belly.

Gallbladder removal surgery is done while you are under general anesthesia so
you will be asleep and pain-free.

The operation is done the following way:

    * The surgeon makes 3 to 4 small cuts in your belly.
    * The laparoscope is inserted through one of the cuts.
    * Other medical instruments are inserted through the other cuts.
    * Gas is pumped into your belly to expand the space. This gives the surgeon more room to see and work.

The gallbladder is then removed using the laparoscope and other instruments.

An x-ray called a cholangiogram may be done during your surgery.

    * To do this test, dye is injected into your common bile duct and an x-ray picture is taken. The dye helps find stones that may be outside your gallbladder.
    * If other stones are found, the surgeon may remove them with a special instrument.

Sometimes the surgeon cannot safely take out the gallbladder using a
laparoscope. In this case, the surgeon will use open surgery, in which a
largerÂ cut is made.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

You may need this surgery if you have pain or other symptoms from gallstones.
You may also need it if your gallbladder is not working normally.

Common symptoms may include:

    * Indigestion, including bloating, heartburn, and gas
    * Pain after eating, usually in the upper right or upper middle area of your belly (epigastric pain)
    * Nausea and vomiting

Most people have a quicker recovery and fewer problems with laparoscopic
surgery than with open surgery.

## Risks

Risks for anesthesia and surgery in general include:

    * Reactions to medicines
    * Breathing problems
    * Bleeding, blood clots
    * Infection 

Risks for gallbladder surgery include:

    * Damage to the blood vessels that go to the liver
    * Injury to the common bile duct
    * Injury to the small intestine or colon
    * Pancreatitis (inflammation of the pancreas) 

## Before the Procedure

You may have the following tests done before your surgery:

    * Blood tests (complete blood count, electrolytes, and kidney tests)
    * Chest x-ray or electrocardiogram (ECG), for some people
    * Several x-rays of the gallbladder
    * Ultrasound of the gallbladder 

Tell your health care provider:

    * If you are or might be pregnant
    * What medicines, vitamins, and other supplements you are taking, even ones you bought without a prescription 

During the week before surgery:

    * You may be asked to stop taking aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), vitamin E, warfarin (Coumadin), and any other drugs that put you at higher risk of bleeding during surgery.
    * Ask your doctor which drugs you should still take on the day of your surgery.
    * Prepare your home for any problems you might have getting around after the surgery.
    * Your doctor or nurse will tell you when to arrive at the hospital.

On the day of surgery:

    * Follow instructions about when to stop eating and drinking.
    * Take the drugs your doctor told you to take with a small sip of water.
    * Shower the night before or the morning of your surgery.
    * Arrive at the hospital on time. 

## After the Procedure

If you do not have any problems, you will be able to go home when you are able
to drink liquids easily and your pain can be treated with pain pills. Most
people go home on the same day or the day after this surgery.

If there were problems during surgery, or if you have bleeding, a lot of pain,
or a fever, you may need to stay in the hospital longer.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most people recover quickly and have good results from this procedure.

## Alternative Names

Cholecystectomy - laparoscopic; Gallbladder - laparoscopicÂ surgery;
Gallstones - laparoscopic surgery; Cholecystitis - laparoscopic surgery

## Patient Instructions

    * Bland diet
    * Surgical wound care - open
    * When you have nausea and vomiting

## Images

    * ![Gallbladder](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8732t.jpg)Gallbladder
    * ![Gallbladder anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8789t.jpg)Gallbladder anatomy
    * ![Laparoscopic surgery - series - Incision](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/15883t.jpg)Laparoscopic surgery - series

## References

Jackson PG, Evans SRT. Biliary system. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers
BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery: The Biological Basis of
Modern Surgical Practice_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 54.

Rocha FG, Clanton J. Technique of cholecystectomy: open and minimally
invasive. In: Jarnagin WR, ed. _Blumgart's Surgery of the Liver, Biliary Tract
and Pancreas_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 35.

## Review Date 6/15/2019

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Gallbladder
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GallbladderDiseases_thumb.jpg)Gallbladder
Diseases _Read more_

![Gallstones](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Gallstones_thumb.jpg)Gallstones
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

