Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003796.htm    
                                Description: An abdominal magnetic resonance imaging scan is an imaging test that uses powerful magnets and radio waves. The waves create pictures of the inside of the belly area. It does not use radiation (x-rays).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Abdominal MRI scan

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003796.htm

# Abdominal MRI scan

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An abdominal magnetic resonance imaging scan is an imaging test that uses
powerful magnets and radio waves. The waves create pictures of the inside of
the belly area. It does not use radiation (x-rays).

Single magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) images are called slices. The images
can be stored on a computer, viewed on a monitor, or scanned to a disc. One
exam produces dozens or sometimes hundreds of images.

## How the Test is Performed

You may be asked to wear a hospital gown or clothing without metal zippers or
snaps (such as sweatpants and a t-shirt). Certain types of metal can cause
blurry images.

You will lie on a narrow table. The table slides into a large tunnel-shaped
scanner.

Some exams require a special dye (contrast). Most of the time, the dye is
given during the test through a vein (IV) in your hand or forearm. The dye
helps the radiologist see certain areas more clearly.

During the MRI, the person who operates the machine will watch you from
another room. The test lasts about 30 to 60 minutes, but it may take longer.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You may be asked not to eat or drink anything for 4 to 6 hours before the
scan.

Tell your health care provider if you are afraid of close spaces (have
claustrophobia). You may be given a medicine to help you feel sleepy and less
anxious. Your provider may also suggest an open MRI, in which the machine is
not as close to your body.

Before the test, tell your provider if you have:

    * Artificial heart valves
    * Brain aneurysm clips
    * Heart defibrillator or pacemaker
    * Inner ear (cochlear) implants
    * Kidney disease or dialysis (you may not be able to receive contrast)
    * Recently placed artificial joints
    * Certain types of vascular stents
    * Worked with sheet metal in the past (you may need tests to check for metal pieces in your eyes) 

Because the MRI contains strong magnets, metal objects are not allowed into
the room with the MRI scanner. Avoid carrying items such as:

    * Pocketknives, pens, and eyeglasses
    * Watches, credit cards, jewelry, and hearing aids
    * Hairpins, metal zippers, pins, and similar items
    * Removable dental implants 

## How the Test will Feel

An MRI exam causes no pain. You may get medicine to relax you if you have a
problem lying still or are very nervous. Moving too much can blur MRI images
and cause errors.

The table may be hard or cold, but you can ask for a blanket or pillow. The
machine makes loud thumping and humming noises when turned on. You can wear
ear plugs to help reduce the noise.

An intercom in the room allows you to speak to someone at any time. Some MRIs
have televisions and special headphones to help you pass time.

There is no recovery time, unless you were given a medicine to help you relax.
After an MRI scan, you can go back to your normal diet, activity, and
medicines.

## Why the Test is Performed

An abdominal MRI provides detailed pictures of the belly area from many views.
It is often used to clarify findings from earlier x-rays or CT scans.

This test may be used to look at:

    * Blood flow in the abdomen
    * Blood vessels in the abdomen
    * The cause of abdominal pain or swelling
    * The cause of abnormal blood test results, such as liver or kidney problems
    * Lymph nodes in the abdomen
    * Masses in the liver, kidneys, adrenals, pancreas, or spleen 

MRI can distinguish tumors from normal tissues. This can help the doctor know
more about the tumor such as size, severity, and spread. This is called
staging.

In some cases it can give better information about masses in the abdomen than
CT.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An abnormal result may be due to:

    * Abdominal aortic aneurysm
    * Abscess
    * Cancer or tumors that involves the adrenal glands, liver, gallbladder, pancreas, kidneys, ureters, intestines
    * Enlarged spleen or liver
    * Gallbladder or bile duct problems
    * Hemangiomas
    * Hydronephrosis (kidney swelling from the backflow of urine)
    * Kidney infection
    * Kidney damage or diseases
    * Kidney stones
    * Enlarged lymph nodes
    * Obstructed vena cava
    * Portal vein obstruction (liver)
    * Blockage or narrowing of the arteries that supply the kidneys
    * Renal vein thrombosis
    * Kidney or liver transplant rejection
    * Cirrhosis of the liver
    * Spread of cancers that began outside the belly 

## Risks

MRI does not use ionizing radiation. No side effects from the magnetic fields
and radio waves have been reported.

The most common type of contrast (dye) used is gadolinium. It is very safe.
Allergic reactions are rare but can occur. If you have a history of severe
allergic reactions to other medicines you should notify your doctor. In
addition, gadolinium can be harmful to people with kidney problems who need
dialysis. Tell your provider before the test if you have kidney problems.

The strong magnetic fields created during an MRI can cause heart pacemakers
and other implants not to work as well. The magnets can also cause a piece of
metal inside your body to move or shift.

## Alternative Names

Nuclear magnetic resonance - abdomen; NMR - abdomen; Magnetic resonance
imaging - abdomen; MRI of the abdomen

## Patient Instructions

    * Aortic aneurysm repair - endovascular - discharge

## Images

    * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
    * ![MRI scans](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23212t.jpg)MRI scans

## References

Brandt LJ, Aroniadis OC. Vascular disorders of the gastrointestinal tract. In:
Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's
Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease._ 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 37.

Kim DH, Pickhard PJ. Diagnostic imaging procedures in gastroenterology. In:
Goldman L, Schafter AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 133.

Wilkinson ID, Graves MJ. Magnetic resonance imaging. In: Adam A, Dixon AK,
Gillard JH, Schaefer-Prokop CM, eds. _Grainger & Allison's Diagnostic
Radiology_. 6th ed. New York, NY: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone; 2015:chap 5.

## Review Date 6/25/2018

Updated by: Jason Levy, MD, Northside Radiology Associates, Atlanta, GA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Photograph of a woman clutching her stomach in
pain](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pain_thumb.jpg)Abdominal Pain _Read more_

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AdrenalGlandNew_thumb.jpg)Adrenal Gland
Cancer _Read more_

![Bile
Duct](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BileDuctCancerandDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bile
Duct Cancer _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

