Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003826.htm    
                                Description: Gallbladder radionuclide scan is a test that uses radioactive material to check gallbladder function. It is also used to look for bile duct blockage or leak.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Gallbladder radionuclide scan

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003826.htm

# Gallbladder radionuclide scan

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Gallbladder radionuclide scan is a test that uses radioactive material to
check gallbladder function. It is also used to look for bile duct blockage or
leak.

## How the Test is Performed

The health care provider will inject a radioactive chemical called a gamma
emitting tracer into a vein. This material collects mostly in the liver. It
will then flow with bile into the gallbladder and then to the duodenum or
small intestine.

For the test:

    * You lie face up on a table under a scanner called a gamma camera. The scanner detects the rays coming from the tracer. A computer displays images of where the tracer is found in the organs.
    * Images are taken every 5 to 15 minutes. Most of the time, the test takes about 1 hour. At times, it can take up to 4 hours.

If the provider cannot see the gallbladder after certain amount of time, you
may be given a small amount of morphine. This can help the radioactive
material get into the gallbladder. The morphine may cause you to feel tired
after the exam.

In some cases, you may be given a medicine during this test to see how well
your gallbladder squeezes (contracts). The medicine may be injected into the
vein. Otherwise, you may be asked to drink a high-density drink like Boost
which will help your gallbladder contract.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You need to eat something within a day of the test. However, you must stop
eating or drinking 4 hours before the test starts.

## How the Test will Feel

You will feel a sharp prick from the needle when the tracer is injected into
the vein. The site may be sore after the injection. There is normally no pain
during the scan.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is very good for detecting a sudden infection of the gallbladder or
blockage of a bile duct. It is also helpful in determining whether there is
complication of a transplanted liver or a leak after the gallbladder has been
surgically removed.

The test can also be used to detect long-term gallbladder problems.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be due to:

    * Abnormal anatomy of the bile system (biliary anomalies)
    * Bile duct obstruction
    * Bile leaks or abnormal ducts
    * Cancer of the hepatobiliary system
    * Gallbladder infection (cholecystitis)
    * Gallstones
    * Infection of the gallbladder, ducts, or liver
    * Liver disease
    * Transplant complication (after liver transplant) 

## Risks

There is a small risk to pregnant or nursing mothers. Unless it is absolutely
necessary, the scan will be delayed until you are no longer pregnant or
nursing.

The amount of radiation is small (less than that of a regular x-ray). It is
almost all gone from the body within 1 or 2 days. Your risk from radiation may
increase if you have a lot of scans.

## Considerations

Most of the time, this test is done only if a person has sudden pain that may
be from gallbladder disease or gallstones. For this reason, some people may
need urgent treatment based on the test results.

This test is combined with other imaging (such as CT or ultrasound). After the
gallbladder scan, the person may be prepared for surgery, if needed.

## Alternative Names

Radionuclide - gallbladder; Gallbladder scan; Biliary scan; Cholescintigraphy;
HIDA; Hepatobiliary nuclear imaging scan

## Images

    * ![Gallbladder](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19261t.jpg)Gallbladder
    * ![Gallbladder radionuclide scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9341t.jpg)Gallbladder radionuclide scan

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Hepatobiliary scan (HIDA Scan) - diagnostic. In:
Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_.
6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:635-636.

Fogel EL, Sherman S. Diseases of the gallbladder and bile ducts. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 155.

Grajo JR. Imaging of the liver. In: Sahani DV, Samir AE, eds. _Abdominal
Imaging_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 35.

Wang DQH, Afdhal NH. Gallstone disease. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ,
eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 65.

## Review Date 12/23/2018

Updated by: Jason Levy, MD, Northside Radiology Associates, Atlanta, GA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bile
Duct](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BileDuctCancerandDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bile
Duct Cancer _Read more_

![Bile
Duct](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BileDuctCancerandDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bile
Duct Diseases _Read more_

![Gallbladder
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GallbladderDiseases_thumb.jpg)Gallbladder
Diseases _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

