Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000771.htm    
                                Description: Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome is a brain disorder due to vitamin B1 (thiamine) deficiency.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000771.htm

# Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome is a brain disorder due to vitamin B1 (thiamine)
deficiency.

## Causes

Wernicke encephalopathy and Korsakoff syndrome are different conditions that
often occur together. Both areÂ due to brain damage caused by a lack of
vitamin B1.

Lack of vitamin B1 is common in people who have alcohol use disorder. It is
also common in people whose bodies do not absorb food properly
(malabsorption). This can sometimes occur with a chronic illness or after
weight-loss (bariatric)Â surgery.

Korsakoff syndrome, or Korsakoff psychosis, tends to develop as Wernicke
symptoms go away. Wernicke encephalopathy causes brain damage in lower parts
of the brain called the thalamus and hypothalamus. Korsakoff psychosis results
from permanent damage to areas of the brain involved with memory.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of Wernicke encephalopathy include:

    * Confusion and loss of mental activity that can progress to coma and death
    * Loss of muscle coordination (ataxia) that can cause leg tremor
    * Vision changes such as abnormal eye movements (back and forth movements called nystagmus), double vision,Â eyelid drooping
    * Alcohol withdrawal

Symptoms of Korsakoff syndrome:

    * Inability to form new memories
    * Loss of memory, can be severe
    * Making up stories (confabulation)
    * Seeing or hearing things that are not really there (hallucinations)

## Exams and Tests

Examination of the nervous/muscular system may show damage to many nerve
systems:

    * Abnormal eye movement 
    * Decreased or abnormal reflexes 
    * Fast pulse (heart rate) 
    * Low blood pressure 
    * Low body temperature 
    * Muscle weakness and atrophy (loss of tissue mass) 
    * Problems with walk (gait) and coordination 

The person may appear poorly nourished. The following tests are used to check
a person's nutrition level:

    * Serum albumin (relates to person's general nutrition)
    * Serum vitamin B1 levels
    * Transketolase activity in red blood cells (reduced in people with thiamine deficiency) 

Liver enzymes may be high in people with a history of long-term alcohol abuse.

Other conditions that may causeÂ vitamin B1Â deficiency include:

    * HIV/AIDS
    * Cancers that have spread throughout the body
    * Extreme nausea and vomiting during pregnancy (hyperemesis gravidarum)
    * Heart failure (when treated with long-term diuretic therapy)
    * Long periods of intravenous (IV) therapy without receiving thiamine supplements
    * Long-term dialysis
    * Very high thyroid hormone levels (thyrotoxicosis)

A brain MRI may show changes in the tissue of the brain. But if Wernicke-
Korsakoff syndrome is suspected, treatment should start immediately. Usually a
brain MRI exam is not needed.

## Treatment

The goals of treatment are to control symptoms and to prevent the disorder
from getting worse. Some people may need to stay in the hospital early in the
condition to help control symptoms.

Monitoring and special care may be needed if the person is:

    * In a coma
    * Lethargic
    * Unconscious 

Vitamin B1 is usually given by injection into a vein or a muscle as soon as
possible. This may improve symptoms of:

    * Confusion or delirium
    * Difficulties with vision and eye movement
    * Lack of muscle coordination 

Vitamin B1 often does not improve loss of memory and intellect that occur with
Korsakoff psychosis.

Stopping alcohol use can prevent more loss of brain function and damage to
nerves. A well-balanced, nourishing diet can help, but it is not a substitute
for stopping alcohol use.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Without treatment, Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome gets steadily worse, and can be
life threatening. With treatment, it is possible to control symptoms (such as
uncoordinated movement and vision difficulties). This disorder canÂ also beÂ
slowed or stopped.

## Possible Complications

Complications that may result include:

    * Alcohol withdrawal
    * Difficulty with personal or social interaction
    * Injury caused by falls
    * Permanent alcoholic neuropathy
    * Permanent loss of thinking skills
    * Permanent loss of memory
    * Shortened life span

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider or go to the emergency room if you have
symptoms of Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome, or if you have been diagnosed with
the condition and your symptoms get worse or return.

## Prevention

Not drinking alcohol or drinking in moderation and getting enough nutrition
reduce the risk of developing Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome. If a heavy drinker
will not quit, thiamine supplements and a good diet may reduce the chance of
getting this condition, but the risk is not eliminated.

## Alternative Names

Korsakoff psychosis; Alcoholic encephalopathy; Encephalopathy - alcoholic;
Wernicke's disease; Alcohol use - Wernicke; Alcoholism - Wernicke; Thiamine
deficiency - Wernicke

## Images

    * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system
    * ![Brain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1074t.jpg)Brain
    * ![Brain structures](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19236t.jpg)Brain structures

## References

Koppel BS. Nutritional and alcohol-related neurologic disorders. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 416.

So YT. Deficiency diseases of the nervous system. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J,
Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 85.

## Review Date 2/27/2018

Updated by: Joseph V. Campellone, MD, Department of Neurology, Cooper Medical
School at Rowan University, Camden, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Alcoholism and Alcohol
Abuse](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Alcohol2_thumb.jpg)Alcohol Use Disorder
(AUD) _Read more_

![Brain Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BrainDiseases_thumb.jpg)Brain
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

