Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000793.htm    
                                Description: Increased intracranial pressure is a rise in the pressure inside the skull that can result from or cause brain injury.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Increased intracranial pressure

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000793.htm

# Increased intracranial pressure

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Increased intracranial pressure is a rise in the pressure inside the skull
that can result from or cause brain injury.

## Causes

Increased intracranial pressure can be due to a rise in pressure of the
cerebrospinal fluid. This is the fluid that surrounds the brain and spinal
cord. Increase in intracranial pressure can also be due to a rise in pressure
within the brain itself. This can be caused by a mass (such as a tumor),
bleeding into the brain or fluid around the brain, or swelling within the
brain itself.

An increase in intracranial pressure is a serious and life-threatening medical
problem. The pressure can damage the brain or spinal cord by pressing on
important structures and by restricting blood flow into the brain.

Many conditions can increase intracranial pressure. Common causes include:

    * Aneurysm rupture and subarachnoid hemorrhage
    * Brain tumor
    * Encephalitis irritation and swelling, or inflammation, of the brain)
    * Head injury
    * Hydrocephalus (increased fluid around the brain)
    * Hypertensive brain hemorrhage (bleeding in the brain from high blood pressure)
    * Intraventricular hemorrhage (bleeding into the fluid-filled areas, or ventricles, inside the brain)
    * Meningitis (infection of the membranes covering the brain and spinal cord)
    * Subdural hematoma (bleeding between the covering of the brain and the surface of the brain)
    * Epidural hematoma (bleeding between the inside of the skull and the outer covering of the brain)
    * Seizure
    * Stroke

## Symptoms

Infants:

    * Drowsiness
    * Separated sutures on the skull
    * Bulging of the soft spot on top of the head (bulging fontanelle)
    * Vomiting 

Older children and adults:

    * Behavior changes
    * Decreased alertness
    * Headache
    * Lethargy
    * Nervous system symptoms, including weakness, numbness, eye movement problems, and double vision
    * Seizures
    * Vomiting 

## Exams and Tests

A health care provider will usually make the diagnosis at the patient's
bedside in an emergency room or hospital. Primary care doctors may sometimes
spot early symptoms of increased intracranial pressure such as headache,
seizures, or other nervous system problems.

An MRI or CT scan of the head can usually determine the cause of increased
intracranial pressure and confirm the diagnosis.

Intracranial pressure may be measured during a spinal tap (lumbar puncture).
It can also be measured directly by using a device that is drilled through the
skull or a tube (catheter) that is inserted into a hollow area in the brain
called the ventricle.

## Treatment

Sudden increased intracranial pressure is an emergency. The person will be
treated in the intensive care unit of the hospital. The health care team will
measure and monitor the person's neurological and vital signs, including
temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure.

Treatment may include:

    * Breathing support
    * Draining of cerebrospinal fluid to lower pressure in the brain
    * Medicines to decrease swelling
    * Removal of part of the skull, especially in the first 2 days of a stroke that involves brain swelling

If a tumor, hemorrhage, or other problem has caused the increase in
intracranial pressure, these problems will be treated.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Sudden increased intracranial pressure is a serious and oftenÂ life-
threatening condition.Â Prompt treatment results in better outlook.

If the increased pressure pushes on important brain structures and blood
vessels, it can lead to serious, permanent problems or even death.

## Prevention

This condition usually cannot be prevented. If you have a persistent headache,
blurred vision, changes in your level of alertness, nervous system problems,
or seizures, seek medical help right away.

## Alternative Names

ICP - raised; Intracranial pressure - raised; Intracranial hypertension; Acute
increased intracranial pressure; Sudden increased intracranial pressure

## Patient Instructions

    * Ventriculoperitoneal shunt - discharge

## Images

    * ![Subdural hematoma](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9453t.jpg)Subdural hematoma
    * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system

## References

Ball JW, Dains JE, Flynn JA, Solomon BS, Stewart RW. Emergency or life-
threatening situations. In: Ball JW, Dains JE, Flynn JA, Solomon BS, Stewart
RW, eds. _Seidel's Guide to Physical Examination_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2019:chap 26.

Beaumont A. Physiology of the cerebrospinal fluid and intracranial pressure.
In: Winn HR, ed. _Youmans and Winn Neurological Surgery_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 52.

Kelly A-M. Neurology emergencies. In: Cameron P, Jelinek G, Kelly A-M, Brown
A, Little M, eds. _Textbook of Adult Emergency Medicine_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone; 2015:386-427.

## Review Date 5/28/2019

Updated by: Alireza Minagar, MD, MBA, Professor, Department of Neurology, LSU
Health Sciences Center, Shreveport, LA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Brain Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BrainDiseases_thumb.jpg)Brain
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

