Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/anatomyvideos/000016.htm    
                                Description: The brain is composed of more than a thousand billion neurons. Specific groups of them, working in concert, provide us with the capacity to reason, to experience feelings, and to understand the world.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Videos & Tools ->

Health Videos ->

Brain components

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/anatomyvideos/000016.htm

# Brain components

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Play health video: //medlineplus.gov/ency/videos/mov/200008_eng.mp4

What's this?Play health video with audio description:
//medlineplus.gov/ency/videos/mov/200008_eng_ad.mp4

## Overview

The brain is composed of more than a thousand billion neurons. Specific groups
of them, working in concert, provide us with the capacity to reason, to
experience feelings, and to understand the world. They also give us the
capacity to remember numerous pieces of information.

The 3 major components of the brain are the cerebrum, cerebellum, and brain
stem.

The cerebrum is divided into left and right hemispheres, each composed of a
frontal, temporal, parietal, and occipital lobe. The cerebral cortex (gray
matter) is the outside portion of the cerebrum and provides us with functions
associated with conscious thought. The grooves and folds increase the
cerebrum's surface area, allowing us to have a tremendous amount of gray
matter inside of the skull. Deep to the gray matter is the cerebral "white
matter." The white matter provides for the communication between the cortex
and lower central nervous system centers.

The cerebellum is located near the base of the head. It creates automatic
programs so we can make complex movements without thinking.

The brain stem connects the brain with the spinal cord and is composed of 3
structures: the midbrain, pons, and medulla oblongata. The brain stem provides
us with automatic functions that are necessary for survival.

## Review Date 5/13/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Brain Diseases
    * Brain Tumors
    * Traumatic Brain Injury

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

