Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001202.htm    
                                Description: Hypothalamic dysfunction is a problem with part of the brain called the hypothalamus. The hypothalamus helps control the pituitary gland and regulates many body functions.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hypothalamic dysfunction

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001202.htm

# Hypothalamic dysfunction

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hypothalamic dysfunction is a problem with part of the brain called the
hypothalamus. The hypothalamus helps control the pituitary gland and regulates
many body functions.

## Causes

The hypothalamus helps keep the body's internal functions in balance. It helps
regulate:

    * Appetite and weight
    * Body temperature
    * Childbirth
    * Emotions, behavior, memory
    * Growth
    * Production of breast milk
    * Salt and water balance
    * Sex drive
    * Sleep-wake cycle and the body clock 

Another important function of the hypothalamus is to control the pituitary
gland. The pituitary is a small gland at the base of the brain. It lies just
below the hypothalamus. The pituitary, in turn, controls the:

    * Adrenal glands
    * Ovaries
    * Testes
    * Thyroid gland 

There are many causes of hypothalamic dysfunction. The most common are
surgery, traumatic brain injury, tumors, and radiation.

Other causes include:

    * Nutrition problems, such as eating disorders (anorexia), extreme weight loss
    * Blood vessel problems in the brain, such as aneurysm, pituitary apoplexyÂ ,Â subarachnoid hemorrhage
    * Genetic disorders, such as Prader-Willi syndrome,Â familial diabetes insipidus, Kallmann syndrome
    * Infections and swelling (inflammation) due to certain immune system diseases 

## Symptoms

Symptoms are usually due to the hormones or brain signals that are missing. In
children, there may be growth problems, either too much or too little growth.
In other children, puberty occurs too early or too late.

Tumor symptoms may include headache or loss of vision.

If the thyroid is affected, there may be symptoms of an underactive thyroid
(hypothyroidism). Symptoms may include feeling cold all the time,
constipation, fatigue, or weight gain, among others.

If the adrenal glands are affected, there may be symptoms of low adrenal
function. Symptoms may include fatigue, weakness, poor appetite, weight loss,
and lack of interest in activities.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical examination and ask about
your symptoms.

Blood or urine tests may be ordered to determine levels of hormones such as:

    * Cortisol
    * Estrogen
    * Growth hormone
    * Pituitary hormones
    * Prolactin
    * Testosterone
    * Thyroid
    * Sodium
    * Blood andÂ urine osmolality  

Other possible tests include:

    * Hormone injections followed by timed blood samplesÂ 
    * MRI or CT scans of the brain
    * Visual field eye exam (if there is a tumor)

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the cause of the hypothalamic dysfunction:

    * For tumors, surgery or radiation may be needed.
    * For hormonal deficiencies, missing hormones need to be replaced by taking medicine. This is effective for pituitary problems, and for salt and water balance.
    * Medicines are usually not effective for changes in temperature or sleep regulation.
    * Some medicines may help with problems related to appetite regulation.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Many causes of hypothalamic dysfunction are treatable. Most of the time,
missing hormones can be replaced.

## Possible Complications

Complications of hypothalamic dysfunction depend on the cause.

BRAIN TUMORS

    * Permanent blindness
    * Problems related to the brain area where the tumor occurs
    * Vision disorders
    * Problems controlling salt and water balance

HYPOTHYROIDISM

    * Heart problems
    * High cholesterol

ADRENAL INSUFFICIENCY

    * Inability to deal with stress (such as surgery or infection), which can be life threatening by causing low blood pressure

SEX GLAND DEFICIENCY

    * Heart disease
    * Erection problems
    * Infertility
    * Thin bones (osteoporosis)
    * Problems breast feeding

GROWTH HORMONE DEFICIENCY

    * High cholesterol
    * Osteoporosis
    * Short stature (in children)
    * Weakness

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have:

    * Headaches
    * Symptoms of hormone excess or deficiency
    * Vision problems 

## Prevention

If you have symptoms of a hormonal deficiency, discuss replacement therapy
with your provider.

## Alternative Names

Hypothalamic syndromes

## Images

    * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system
    * ![Hypothalamus](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19239t.jpg)Hypothalamus

## References

Giustina A, Braunstein GD. Hypothalamic syndromes. In: Jameson JL, De Groot
LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 10.

Weiss RE. Neuroendocrinology and the neuroendocrine system. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2020:chap 210.

## Review Date 5/6/2019

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Brain Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BrainDiseases_thumb.jpg)Brain
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

