Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000302.htm    
                                Description: Loss of brain function occurs when the liver is unable to remove toxins from the blood.Â This is called hepatic encephalopathy (HE). This problem may occur suddenly or it may develop slowly over time.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Loss of brain function - liver disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000302.htm

# Loss of brain function - liver disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Loss of brain function occurs when the liver is unable to remove toxins from
the blood.Â This is called hepatic encephalopathy (HE). This problem may occur
suddenly or it may develop slowly over time.

## Causes

An important function of the liver is to make toxic substances in the body
harmless. These substances may be made by the body (ammonia), or substances
that you take in (medicines).

When the liver is damaged, these "poisons" can build up in the bloodstream and
affect the function of the nervous system. The result may be HE.

HE can occur suddenly and you may become ill very quickly. Causes of HE may
include:

    * Hepatitis A or B infection (uncommon to occur this way)
    * Blockage of blood supply to the liver
    * Poisoning by different toxins or medicines
    * Constipation
    * Upper gastrointestinal bleeding

People with severe liver damage often suffer from HE. The end result of
chronic liver damage is cirrhosis. Common causes of chronic liver disease are:

    * Severe hepatitis B orÂ C infection
    * Alcohol abuse
    * Autoimmune hepatitis
    * Bile duct disorders
    * Some medicines
    * Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH)

Once you have liver damage, episodes of worsening brain function may be
triggered by:

    * Less body fluids (dehydration)
    * Eating too much protein
    * Low potassium or sodium levels
    * Bleeding from the intestines, stomach, or food pipe (esophagus)
    * Infections
    * Kidney problems
    * Low oxygen levels in the body
    * Shunt placement or complications
    * Surgery
    * Narcotic pain or sedative medicines

Disorders that can appear similar to HE may include:

    * Alcohol intoxication
    * Alcohol withdrawal
    * Bleeding under the skull (subdural hematoma)
    * Brain disorder caused by lack of vitamin B1 (Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome)

In some cases, HE is a short-term problem that can be corrected. It may also
occur as part of a long-term (chronic) problem from liver disease that gets
worse over time.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of HE are graded on a scale of grades 1 to 4. They may begin slowly
and worsen over time.

Early symptoms may be mild and include:

    * Breath with a musty or sweet odor
    * Changes in sleep patterns
    * Changes in thinking
    * Mild confusion
    * Forgetfulness
    * Personality or mood changes
    * Poor concentration and judgment
    * Worsening of handwriting or loss of other small hand movements

Severe symptoms may include:

    * Abnormal movements or shaking of hands or arms
    * Agitation, excitement, or seizures (occur rarely)
    * Disorientation
    * Drowsiness or confusion
    * Behavior or personality changes
    * Slurred speech
    * Slowed or sluggish movement

People with HE can become unconscious, unresponsive, and possibly enter into a
coma.

People are often not able to care for themselves because of these symptoms.

## Exams and Tests

Signs of nervous system changes may include:

    * Shaking of the hands ("flapping tremor") when trying to hold arms in front of the body and lift the hands
    * Problems with thinking and doing mental tasks
    * Signs of liver disease, such as yellow skin and eyes (jaundice) and fluid collection in the abdomen (ascites)
    * Musty odor to the breath and urine

Tests done may include:

    * Complete blood count or hematocrit to check for anemia
    * CT scan of the head or MRI
    * EEG
    * Liver function tests
    * Prothrombin time
    * Serum ammonia level
    * Sodium level in the blood
    * Potassium level in the blood
    * BUN (blood urea nitrogen) and creatinine to see how the kidneys are working 

## Treatment

Treatment of HE depends upon the cause.

If changes in brain function are severe, a hospital stay may be needed.

    * Bleeding in the digestive tract must be stopped.
    * Infections, kidney failure, and changes in sodium and potassium levels need to be treated. 

Medicines are given to help lower ammonia level and improve brain function.
Medicines given may include:

    * Lactulose toÂ prevent bacteria in the intestines from creating ammonia. It may cause diarrhea.
    * Neomycin and rifaximin also reduce the amount of ammonia made in the intestines.
    * If the HE improves while taking rifaximin, it should be continued indefinitely. 

You should avoid:

    * Any sedatives, tranquilizers, and any other medicines that are broken down by the liver
    * Medicines containing ammonium (including certain antacids) 

Your health care provider may suggest other medicines and treatments. These
may have varying results.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outlook of HE depends on the management of cause of HE. Chronic forms of
the disorder often continue to get worse and come back.

The first two stages of the disease have a good prognosis. Stage three and
four have a poor prognosis.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you or people around you notice any problems with your
mental state or nervous system function. This is important for people who
already have a liver disorder. HE can get worse quickly and become an
emergency condition.

## Prevention

Treating liver problems may prevent HE. Avoiding alcohol and intravenous drugs
can prevent many liver disorders.

## Alternative Names

Hepatic coma; Encephalopathy - hepatic; Hepatic encephalopathy; Portosystemic
encephalopathy

## References

Ferri FF. Hepatic encephalopathy. In: Ferri FF, ed. _Ferri's Clinical Advisor
2020_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020: 652-654.

Garcia-Tsao G. Cirrhosis and its sequelae. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 144.

Nevah MI, Fallon MB. Hepatic encephalopathy, hepatorenal syndrome,
hepatopulmonary syndrome, and other systemic complications of liver disease.
In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's
Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 94.

Wong MP, Moitra VK. Hepatic encephalopathy. In: Fleisher LA, Roizen MF, Roizen
JD, eds. _Essence of Anesthesia Practice_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2018:198-198.

Woreta T, Mezina A. Management of hepatic encephalopathy. In: Cameron AM,
Cameron JL, eds. _Current Surgical Therapy_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2020:428-431.

## Review Date 7/11/2019

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Brain Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BrainDiseases_thumb.jpg)Brain
Diseases _Read more_

![Cirrhosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cirrhosis2_thumb.jpg)Cirrhosis
_Read more_

![Liver Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LiverDisease_thumb.jpg)Liver
Diseases _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

