Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000775.htm    
                                Description: Osmotic demyelination syndrome (ODS) is brain cell dysfunction. It is caused by the destruction of the layer (myelin sheath) covering nerve cells in the middle of the brainstem (pons).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Osmotic demyelination syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000775.htm

# Osmotic demyelination syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Osmotic demyelination syndrome (ODS) is brain cell dysfunction. It is caused
by the destruction of the layer (myelin sheath) covering nerve cells in the
middle of the brainstem (pons).

## Causes

When the myelin sheath that covers nerve cells is destroyed, signals from one
nerve to another aren't properly transmitted. Although the brainstem is mainly
affected, other areas of the brain can also be involved.

The most common cause of ODS is a quick change in the body's sodium levels.
This most often occurs when someone is being treated for low blood sodium
(hyponatremia) and the sodium is replaced too fast. Sometimes, it occurs when
a high level of sodium in the body (hypernatremia)Â is corrected too quickly.

ODS does not usually occur on its own. Most often, it's a complication of
treatment for other problems, or from the other problems themselves.

Risks include:

    * Alcohol use
    * Liver disease 
    * Malnutrition from serious illnesses
    * Radiation treatment of the brain
    * Severe nausea and vomiting during pregnancy

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

    * Confusion, delirium, hallucinations
    * Balance problems, tremor
    * Problem swallowing
    * Reduced alertness, drowsiness or sleepiness, lethargy, poor responses
    * Slurred speech
    * Weakness in the face, arms, or legs, usually affecting both sides of the body

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about the
symptoms.

A head MRI scan may reveal a problem in the brainstem (pons) or other parts of
the brain. This is the main diagnostic test.

Other tests may include:

    * Blood sodium level and other blood tests
    * Brainstem auditory evoked response (BAER)

## Treatment

ODS is an emergency disorder that needs to be treated in the hospital though
most people with this condition are already in the hospital for another
problem.

There is no known cure for central pontine myelinolysis. Treatment is focused
on relieving symptoms.

Physical therapy may help maintain muscle strength, mobility, and function in
weakened arms and legs.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The nerve damage caused by central pontine myelinolysis is often long-lasting.
The disorder can cause serious long-term (chronic) disability.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Decreased ability to interact with others
    * Decreased ability to work or care for self
    * Inability to move, other than to blink eyes ("locked in" syndrome)
    * Permanent nervous system damage

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

There is no real guideline on when to seek medical attention, because ODS is
rare in the general community.

## Prevention

In the hospital, slow, controlled treatment of a low sodium level may reduce
the risk for nerve damage in the pons. Being aware of how some medicines can
change sodium levels can prevent the level from changing too quickly.

## Alternative Names

ODS; Central pontine demyelination

## Images

    * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system

## References

Weissenborn K, Lockwood AH. Toxic and metabolic encephalopathies. In: Daroff
RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in
Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 84.

Yaqoob MM, McCafferty K. Water, electrolytes and acidâbase balance. In:
Kumar P, Clark M, eds. _Kumar and Clark's Clinical Medicine_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 9.

## Review Date 4/30/2018

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, Attending Neurologist and Assistant
Professor of Clinical Neurology, SUNY Stony Brook, School of Medicine, Stony
Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Alcoholism and Alcohol
Abuse](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Alcohol2_thumb.jpg)Alcohol Use Disorder
(AUD) _Read more_

![Brain Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BrainDiseases_thumb.jpg)Brain
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

