Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003310.htm    
                                Description: A bulging fontanelle is an outward curving of an infant    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Fontanelles - bulging

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003310.htm

# Fontanelles - bulging

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A bulging fontanelle is an outward curving of an infant's soft spot
(fontanelle).

## Considerations

The skull is made up of many bones,Â 8 in the skull itself and 14 in the face
area. They join together to form a solid, bony cavity that protects and
supports the brain. The areas where the bones join together are called the
sutures.

The bones are not joined together firmly at birth. This allows the head to
change shape to help it pass through the birth canal. The sutures get minerals
added to them over time and harden, firmly joining the skull bones together.

In an infant, the space where 2 sutures join forms a membrane-covered "soft
spot" called a fontanelle (fontanel). The fontanelles allow for growth of the
brain and skull during an infant's first year.

There are normally several fontanelles on a newborn's skull. They are located
mainly at the top, back, and sides of the head. Like the sutures, fontanelles
harden over time and become closed, solid bony areas.

    * The fontanelle in the back of the head (posterior fontanelle) most often closes by the time an infant is 1 to 2 months old.
    * The fontanelle at the top of the head (anterior fontanelle) most often closes between 7 to 19 months. 

The fontanelles should feel firm and very slightly curved inward to the touch.
A tense or bulging fontanelle occurs when fluid builds up in the brain or the
brain swells, causing increased pressure inside the skull.

When the infant is crying, lying down, or vomiting, the fontanelles may look
like they are bulging. However, they should return to normal when the infant
is in a calm, head-up position.

## Causes

Reasons a child may have bulging fontanelles include:

    * Encephalitis. Swelling (inflammation) of the brain, most often due to infections.
    * Hydrocephalus. A buildup of fluid inside the skull.
    * Increased intracranial pressure.
    * Meningitis. Infection of the membranes covering the brain.

## Home Care

If the fontanelle returns to normal appearance when the child is calm and
head-up, it is not a truly bulging fontanelle.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Immediate, emergency care is needed for any infant who has a truly bulging
fontanelle, especially if it occurs along with fever or excess drowsiness.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask questions about
the child's medical history, such as:

    * Does the "soft spot" return to normal appearance when the infant is calm or head-up?
    * Does it bulge all the time or does it come and go?
    * When did you first notice this?
    * Which fontanelles bulge (top of the head, back of the head, or other)?
    * Are all the fontanelles bulging?
    * What other symptoms are present (such as fever, irritability, or lethargy)? 

Diagnostic tests that may be done are:

    * CT scan of the head
    * MRI scan of the head
    * Spinal tap (lumbar puncture) 

## Alternative Names

Soft spot - bulging; Bulging fontanelles

## Images

    * ![Skull of a newborn](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1127t.jpg)Skull of a newborn
    * ![Bulging fontanelles](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9333t.jpg)Bulging fontanelles

## References

Goyal NK. The newborn infant. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS,
Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 113.

Rosenberg GA. Brain edema and disorders of cerebrospinal fluid circulation.
In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology
in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 88.

Somand DM, Meurer WJ. Central nervous system infections. In: Walls RM,
Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and
Clinical Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 99.

## Review Date 3/6/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Brain Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BrainDiseases_thumb.jpg)Brain
Diseases _Read more_

![Hydrocephalus](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hydrocephalus_thumb.jpg)Hydrocephalus
_Read more_

![Uncommon Infant and Newborn
Problems](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UncommonInfantandNewbornProblems_thumb.jpg)Uncommon
Infant and Newborn Problems _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

