Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001069.htm    
                                Description: Basal ganglia dysfunction is a problem with the deep brain structures that help start and control movement.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Basal ganglia dysfunction

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001069.htm

# Basal ganglia dysfunction

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Basal ganglia dysfunction is a problem with the deep brain structures that
help start and control movement.

## Causes

![Athetosis resulting from basal ganglia
injury](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200036t.gif)Watch this video
about:Athetosis resulting from basal ganglia injury

Conditions that cause injury to the brain can damage the basal ganglia. Such
conditions include:

    * Carbon monoxide poisoning
    * Drug overdose
    * Head injury
    * Infection
    * Liver disease
    * Metabolic problems
    * Multiple sclerosis (MS)
    * Poisoning with copper, manganese, or other heavy metals
    * Stroke
    * Tumors 

A common cause of these findings is chronic use of medicines used to treat
schizophrenia.

Many brain disorders are associated with basal ganglia dysfunction. They
include:

    * Dystonia (muscle tone problems)
    * Huntington disease (disorder in which nerve cells in certain parts of the brain waste away, or degenerate)
    * Multiple system atrophy (widespread nervous system disorder)
    * Parkinson disease
    * Progressive supranuclear palsy (movement disorder from damage to certain nerve cells in the brain)
    * Wilson disease (disorder causing too much copper in the body's tissues) 

## Symptoms

Damage to the basal ganglia cells may cause problems controlling speech,
movement, and posture. This combination of symptoms is called parkinsonism.

A person with basal ganglia dysfunction may have difficulty starting,
stopping, or sustaining movement. Depending on which area of the brain is
affected, there may also be problems with memory and other thought processes.

In general, symptoms vary and may include:

    * Movement changes, such as involuntary or slowed movements
    * Increased muscle tone
    * Muscle spasms and muscle rigidity
    * Problems finding words
    * Tremor
    * Uncontrollable, repeated movements, speech, or cries (tics)
    * Walking difficulty

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about the
symptoms and medical history.

Blood and imaging tests may be needed. These may include:

    * CT and MRI of the head
    * Genetic testing
    * Magnetic resonance angiography to look at the blood vessels in the neck and brain
    * Positron emission tomography (PET) to look at the metabolism of the brain
    * Blood tests to check blood sugar, thyroid function, liver function, and iron and copper levels 

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the cause of the disorder.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well a person does depends on the cause of the dysfunction. Some causes
are reversible, while others require lifelong treatment.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have any abnormal or involuntary movements, falls
without known reason, or if you or others notice that you are shaky or slow.

## Alternative Names

Extrapyramidal syndrome; Antipsychotics - extrapyramidal

## References

Jankovic J. Parkinson disease and other movement disorders. In: Daroff RB,
Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical
Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 96.

Lang AE. Other movement disorders. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 410.

Melnick ME. Basal ganglia disorders. In: Umphred DA, Burton GU, Lazaro RT,
Roller ML, eds. _Umphred's Neurological Renabilitation_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO:
Elsevier Mosby; 2013:chap 20.

## Review Date 4/30/2018

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, Attending Neurologist and Assistant
Professor of Clinical Neurology, SUNY Stony Brook, School of Medicine, Stony
Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Brain Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BrainDiseases_thumb.jpg)Brain
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

