Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007301.htm    
                                Description: Intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH) of the newborn is bleeding into the fluid-filled areas (ventricles) inside the brain. The condition occurs most often in babies that are born early (premature).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Intraventricular hemorrhage of the newborn

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007301.htm

# Intraventricular hemorrhage of the newborn

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH) of the newborn is bleeding into the fluid-
filled areas (ventricles) inside the brain. The condition occurs most often in
babies that are born early (premature).

## Causes

Infants born more than 10 weeks early are at highest risk for this type of
bleeding. The smaller and more premature an infant is, the higher the risk for
IVH. This is because blood vessels in the brain of premature infants are not
yet fully developed. They are very fragile as a result. The blood vessels grow
stronger in the last 10 weeks of pregnancy.

IVH is more common in premature babies with:

    * Respiratory distress syndrome
    * Unstable blood pressure
    * Other medical conditions at birth 

The problem may also occur in otherwise healthy babies who were born early.
Rarely, IVH may develop in full-term babies.

IVH is rarely present at birth. It occurs most often in the first several days
of life. The condition is rare after the first month of age, even if the baby
was born early.

There are four types of IVH. These are called "grades" and are based on the
degree of bleeding.

    * Grades 1 and 2 involve a smaller amount of bleeding. Most of the time, there are no long-term problems as a result of the bleeding. Grade 1 is also referred to as germinal matrix hemorrhage (GMH).
    * Grades 3 and 4 involve more severe bleeding. The blood presses on (grade 3) or directly involves (grade 4) brain tissue. Grade 4 is also called an intraparenchymal hemorrhage. Blood clots can form and block the flow of cerebrospinal fluid. This can lead to increased fluid in the brain (hydrocephalus). 

## Symptoms

There may be no symptoms. The most common symptoms seen in premature infants
include:

    * Breathing pauses (apnea)
    * Changes in blood pressure and heart rate
    * Decreased muscle tone
    * Decreased reflexes
    * Excessive sleep
    * Lethargy
    * Weak suck
    * Seizures and other abnormal movements 

## Exams and Tests

All babies born before 30 weeks should have an ultrasound of the head to
screen for IVH. The test is done in the 1 to 2 weeks of life. Babies born
between 30 to 34 weeks may also have ultrasound screening if they have
symptoms of the problem.

A second screening ultrasound may be done around the time the baby was
originally expected to be born (the due date).

## Treatment

There is no way to stop bleeding associated with IVH. The health care team
will try to keep the infant stable and treat any symptoms the baby may be
having. For example, a blood transfusion may be given to improve blood
pressure and blood count.

If fluid builds up to the point that there is concern about pressure on the
brain, a spinal tap may be done to drain fluid and try to relieve pressure. If
this helps, surgery may be needed to place a tube (shunt) in the brain to
drain fluid.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well the infant does depends on how premature the baby is and the grade of
the hemorrhage. Less than half of babies with lower-grade bleeding have long-
term problems. However, severe bleeding often leads to developmental delays
and problems controlling movement. Up to one third of babies with severe
bleeding may die.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Neurological symptoms or fever in a baby with a shunt in place may indicate a
blockage or infection. The baby needs to get medical care right away if this
happens.

Most newborn intensive care units (NICUs) have a follow-up program to closely
monitor babies who have had this condition until they are at least 3 years
old.

In many states, babies with IVH also qualify for early intervention (EI)
services to help with normal development.

## Prevention

Pregnant women who are at high risk of delivering early should be given
medicines called corticosteroids. These drugs can help reduce the baby's risk
for IVH.

Some women who are on medicines that affect bleeding risks should get vitamin
K before delivery.

Premature babies whose umbilical cords are not clamped right away have less
risk for IVH.

Premature babies who are born in a hospital with a NICU and do not have to be
transported after birth also have less risk for IVH.

## Alternative Names

IVH - newborn; GMH-IVH

## References

deVries LS. Intracranial hemorrhage and vascular lesions in the neonate. In:
Martin RJ, Fanaroff AA, Walsh MC, eds. _Fanaroff and Martin's Neonatal-
Perinatal Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 53.

Dlamini N, deVebar GA. Pediatric stroke. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum
NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 619.

Soul JS, Ment LR. Injury to the developing preterm brain: intraventricular
hemorrhage and white matter injury. In: Swaiman KF, Ashwal S, Ferriero DM, et
al, eds. _Swaiman's Pediatric Neurology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 22.

## Review Date 4/4/2019

Updated by: Liora C. Adler, MD, Pediatric Emergency Medicine, Joe DiMaggio
Children's Hospital, Hollywood, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Bleeding _Read
more_

![Brain Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BrainDiseases_thumb.jpg)Brain
Diseases _Read more_

![Premature
Babies](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PrematureBabies_thumb.jpg)Premature
Babies _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

