Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003802.htm    
                                Description: A skull x-ray is a picture of the bones surrounding the brain, including the facial bones, the nose, and the sinuses.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Skull x-ray

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003802.htm

# Skull x-ray

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A skull x-ray is a picture of the bones surrounding the brain, including the
facial bones, the nose, and the sinuses.

## How the Test is Performed

You lie on the x-ray table or sit in a chair. Your head may be placed in
different positions.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Tell the health care provider if you are pregnant or think you are pregnant.
Remove all jewelry.

## How the Test will Feel

There is little or no discomfort during an x-ray. If there is a head injury,
positioning the head may be uncomfortable.

## Why the Test is Performed

Your doctor may order this x-ray if you have injured your skull. You may also
have this x-ray if you have symptoms or signs of a structural problem inside
the skull, such as a tumor or bleeding.

A skull x-ray is also used to evaluate an unusually shaped child's head.

Other conditions for which the test may be performed include:

    * Teeth are not aligned properly (malocclusion of teeth)
    * Infection of the mastoid bone (mastoiditis)
    * Occupational hearing loss
    * Middle ear infection (otitis media)
    * Abnormal bone growth in the middle ear that causes hearing loss (otosclerosis)
    * Pituitary tumor
    * Sinus infection (sinusitis) 

Sometimes skull x-rays are used to screen for foreign bodies that may
interfere with other tests, such as an MRI scan.

A CT scan of the head is usually preferred to a skull x-ray to evaluate most
head injuries or brain disorders. Skull x-rays are rarely used as the main
test to diagnose such conditions.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be due to:

    * Fracture
    * Tumor
    * Breakdown (erosion) or calcium loss of the bone
    * Movement of the soft tissues inside the skull 

A skull x-ray may detect increased intracranial pressure and unusual skull
structures that are present at birth (congenital).

## Risks

There is low radiation exposure. X-rays are monitored and regulated to provide
the minimum amount of radiation exposure needed to produce the image. Most
experts feel that the risk is low compared with the benefits. Pregnant women
and children are more sensitive to the risks associated with x-rays.

## Alternative Names

X-ray - head; X-ray - skull; Skull radiography; Head x-ray

## Images

    * ![X-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1057t.jpg)X-ray
    * ![Skull of an adult](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1735t.jpg)Skull of an adult

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Radiography of skull, chest, and cervical spineÂ -
diagnostic. In: Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic
Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:953-954.

Magee DJ. Head and face. In: Magee DJ, ed. _Orthopedic Physical Assessment_.
6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 2.

Mettler FA Jr. Head and soft tissues of face and neck. In: Mettler FA Jr, ed.
_Essentials of Radiology_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2014:chap 2.

## Review Date 10/18/2018

Updated by: Alireza Minagar, MD, MBA, Professor, Department of Neurology, LSU
Health Sciences Center, Shreveport, LA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Brain Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BrainDiseases_thumb.jpg)Brain
Diseases _Read more_

![Brain
Malformations](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BrainMalformations_thumb.jpg)Brain
Malformations _Read more_

![Brain Tumors](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BrainTumors_thumb.jpg)Brain
Tumors _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

