Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003506.htm    
                                Description: The ammonia test measures the level of ammonia in a blood sample.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ammonia blood test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003506.htm

# Ammonia blood test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The ammonia test measures the level of ammonia in a blood sample.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Your health care provider may ask you to stop taking certain drugs that may
affect test results. These include:

    * Alcohol
    * Acetazolamide
    * Barbiturates
    * Diuretics
    * Narcotics
    * Valproic acid 

You should not smoke before your blood is drawn.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or a slight bruise. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

Ammonia (NH3) is produced by cells throughout the body, especially the
intestines, liver, and kidneys. Most of the ammonia produced in the body is
used by the liver to produce urea. Urea is also a waste product, but it is
much less toxic than ammonia. Ammonia is especially toxic to the brain. It can
cause confusion, low energy, and sometimes coma.

This test may be done if you have, or your provider thinks you have, a
condition that may cause a toxic buildup of ammonia. It is most commonly used
to diagnose and monitor hepatic encephalopathy, a severe liver disease.

## Normal Results

The normal range is 15 to 45 Âµ/dL (11 to 32 Âµmol/L).

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or may test different samples. Talk to your
provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may mean you have increased ammonia levels in your blood.
This may be due to any of the following:

    * Gastrointestinal (GI) bleeding, usually in the upper GI tract
    * Genetic diseases of the urea cycle
    * High body temperature (hyperthermia)
    * Kidney disease
    * Liver failure
    * Low blood potassium level (in people with liver disease)
    * Parenteral nutrition (nutrition by vein)
    * Reye syndrome
    * Salicylate poisoning
    * Severe muscle exertion
    * Ureterosigmoidostomy (a procedure to reconstruct the urinary tract in certain illnesses)
    * Urinary tract infection with a bacteria called _Proteus mirabilis_

A high-protein diet can also raise the blood ammonia level.

## Risks

There is little risk in having your blood taken. Veins and arteries vary in
size from one person to another and from one side of the body to the other.
Taking blood from some people may be more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

## Alternative Names

Serum ammonia; Encephalopathy - ammonia; Cirrhosis - ammonia; Liver failure -
ammonia

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Ammonia (NH3) - blood and urine. In: Chernecky CC,
Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:126-127.

Nevah MI, Fallon MB. Hepatic encephalopathy, hepatorenal syndrome,
hepatopulmonary syndrome, and other systemic complications of liver disease.
In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's
Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease: Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_.
10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 94.

Pincus MR, Tierno PM, Gleeson E, Bowne WB, Bluth MH. Evaluation of liver
function. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and
Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap
21.

## Review Date 2/2/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Brain Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BrainDiseases_thumb.jpg)Brain
Diseases _Read more_

![Liver Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LiverDisease_thumb.jpg)Liver
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

