Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000719.htm    
                                Description: Cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) is a condition in which proteins called amyloid build up on the walls of the arteries in the brain. CAA increases the risk for stroke caused by bleeding and dementia.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cerebral amyloid angiopathy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000719.htm

# Cerebral amyloid angiopathy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) is a condition in which proteins called
amyloid build up on the walls of the arteries in the brain. CAA increases the
risk for stroke caused by bleeding and dementia.

## Causes

People with CAA have deposits of amyloid protein in the walls of blood vessels
in the brain. The protein is usually not deposited anywhere else in the body.

The major risk factor is increasing age. CAA is more often seen in people
older than 55. Sometimes, it is passed down through families.

## Symptoms

CAA can cause bleeding into the brain. Bleeding often occurs in the outer
parts of the brain, called the cortex, and not the deep areas. Symptoms occur
because bleeding in the brain harms brain tissue. Some people have gradual
memory problems. When a CT scan is done, there are signs that they have had
bleeding in the brain that they may not have realized.

If there is a lot of bleeding, immediate symptoms occur and resemble a stroke.
These symptoms include:

    * Drowsiness
    * Headache (usually in a certain part of the head)
    * Nervous system changes that may start suddenly, including confusion, delirium, double vision, decreased vision, sensation changes, speech problems, weakness, or paralysis
    * Seizures
    * Stupor or coma (rarely)
    * Vomiting 

If bleeding is not severe or widespread, symptoms can include:

    * Episodes of confusion
    * Headaches that come and go
    * Loss of mental function (dementia)
    * Weakness or unusual sensations that come and go, and involve smaller areas
    * Seizures 

## Exams and Tests

CAA is hard to diagnose with certainty without a sample of brain tissue. This
is usually done after death or when a biopsy of the blood vessels of the brain
is done.

A physical exam can be normal if the bleed is small. There may be some brain
function changes. It is important for the doctor to ask detailed questions
about the symptoms and medical history. The symptoms and results of the
physical exam and any imaging tests may cause the doctor to suspect CAA.

Imaging tests of the head that may be done include:

    * CT scan or MRI scan to check for bleeding in the brain
    * MRA scan to check for large bleeds and rule out other causes of bleeding
    * PET scan to check for amyloid deposits in the brain

## Treatment

There is no known effective treatment. The goal of treatment is to relieve
symptoms. In some cases, rehabilitation is needed for weakness or clumsiness.
This can include physical, occupational, or speech therapy.

Sometimes, medicines that help improve memory, such as those for Alzheimer
disease, are used.

Seizures, also called amyloid spells, may be treated with anti-seizure drugs.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The disorder slowly gets worse.

## Possible Complications

Complications of CAA may include:

    * Dementia
    * Hydrocephalus (rarely)
    * Seizures
    * Repeated episodes of bleeding in the brain

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Go to the emergency room or call the local emergency number (such as 911) if
you have sudden loss of movement, sensation, vision, or speech.

## Alternative Names

Amyloidosis - cerebral; CAA; Congophilic angiopathy

## Images

    * ![Amyloidosis of the fingers](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1966t.jpg)Amyloidosis of the fingers
    * ![Arteries of the brain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9441t.jpg)Arteries of the brain

## References

Greenberg SM, Charidimou A. Diagnosis of cerebral amyloid angiopathy:
evolution of the Boston criteria. _Stroke_. 2018;49(2):491-497. PMID: 29335334
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29335334.

Kase CS, Shoamanesh A. Intracerebral hemorrhage. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J,
Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 66.

Yamada M. Cerebral amyloid angiopathy: emerging concepts. _J Stroke_.
2015;17(1):17-30. PMID: 25692104 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25692104.

## Review Date 4/30/2018

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, Attending Neurologist and Assistant
Professor of Clinical Neurology, SUNY Stony Brook, School of Medicine, Stony
Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Amyloidosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Amyloidosis_thumb.jpg)Amyloidosis
_Read more_

![Brain Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BrainDiseases_thumb.jpg)Brain
Diseases _Read more_

![Hemorrhagic
Stroke](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HemorrhagicStroke_thumb.jpg)Hemorrhagic
Stroke _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

