Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007456.htm    
                                Description: Neurosciences (or clinical neurosciences) refers to the branch of medicine that focuses on the nervous system. The nervous system is made of two parts:    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Neurosciences

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007456.htm

# Neurosciences

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Neurosciences (or clinical neurosciences) refers to the branch of medicine
that focuses on the nervous system. The nervous system is made of two parts:

    * The central nervous system (CNS) consists of your brain and spinal cord.
    * The peripheral nervous system consists of all your nerves, including the autonomic nervous system, outside of the brain and spinal cord, including those in your arms, legs, and trunk of the body.

Together, your brain and spinal cord serve as the main "processing center" for
the entire nervous system, and control all the functions of your body.

## Information

A number of different medical conditions can affect the nervous system,
including:

    * Blood vessel disorders in the brain, including arteriovenous malformations and cerebral aneurysms
    * Tumors, benign and malignant (cancer)
    * Degenerative diseases, including Alzheimer disease and Parkinson disease
    * Disorders of the pituitary gland
    * Epilepsy
    * Headaches, including migraines
    * Head injuries such as concussions and brain trauma
    * Movement disorders, such as tremors and Parkinson disease
    * Demyelinating diseases such as multiple sclerosis
    * Neuro-ophthalmologic diseases, which are vision problems that result from damage to the optic nerve or its connections to the brain
    * Peripheral nerve diseases (neuropathy), which affect the nerves that carry information to and from the brain and spinal cord
    * Mental disorders, such as schizophrenia
    * Spine disorders
    * Infections, such as meningitis
    * Stroke

DIAGNOSIS AND TESTING

Neurologists and other neuroscience specialists use special tests and imaging
techniques to see how the nerves and brain are working.

In addition to blood and urine tests, tests done to diagnose nervous system
diseases may include:

    * Computed tomography (CT scan)
    * Lumbar puncture (spinal tap) to check for infection of the spinal cord and brain, or to measure the pressure of the cerebro-spinal fluid (CSF)
    * Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or magnetic resonance angiography (MRA)
    * Electroencephalography (EEG) to look at brain activity
    * Electromyography (EMG) to test nerve and muscle function
    * Electronystagmography (ENG) to check for abnormal eye movements, which can be a sign of a brain disorder
    * Evoked potentials (or evoked response), which looks at how the brain responds to sounds, sight, and touch
    * Magnetoencephalography (MEG)
    * Myelogram of the spine to diagnose nerve injury
    * Nerve conduction velocity (NCV) test
    * Neurocognitive testing (neuropsychological testing)
    * Polysomnogram to see how the brain reacts during sleep
    * Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and positron emission tomography (PET) scan to look at brain metabolic activity
    * Biopsy of the brain, nerve, skin, or muscle to determine if there's a problem with the nervous system 

TREATMENT

Neuroradiology is a branch of neuroscience medicine that focuses on diagnosing
and treating nervous system problems.

Interventional neuroradiology involves inserting tiny, flexible tubes called
catheters into blood vessels leading to the brain. This allows the doctor to
treat blood vessel disorders that can affect the nervous system, such as
stroke.

Interventional neuroradiology treatments include:

    * Balloon angioplasty and stenting of carotid or vertebral artery
    * Endovascular embolization and coiling to treat cerebral aneurysms
    * Intra-arterial therapy for stroke
    * Radiation oncology of the brain and spine
    * Needle biopsies, spine and soft tissues
    * Kyphoplasty and vertebroplasty to treat vertebral fractures 

Open or traditional neurosurgery may be needed in some cases to treat problems
in the brain and surrounding structures. This is more invasive surgery that
requires the surgeon to make an opening, called a craniotomy, in the skull.

Microsurgery allows the surgeon to work on very small structures in the brain
using a microscope and very small, precise instruments.

Stereotactic radiosurgery may be needed for certain types of nervous system
disorders. This is a form of radiation therapy that focuses high-powered
x-rays on a small area of the body, thereby avoiding damage to surrounding
brain tissue.

Treatment of nervous system-related diseases or disorders may also include:

    * Medicines, possibly given by a drug pumps (such as those used for people with severe muscle spasms)
    * Deep brain stimulation
    * Spinal cord stimulation
    * Rehabilitation/physical therapy after brain injury or stroke
    * Spinal surgery 

WHO IS INVOLVED

The neurosciences medical team is often made up of health care providers from
many different specialties. This may include:

    * Neurologist: a doctor who has received extra training in the treatment of brain and nervous system disorders
    * Vascular surgeon: a doctor who has received extra training in the surgical treatment of blood vessel disorders
    * Neurosurgeon: a doctor who has received extra training in brain and spine surgery
    * Neuropsychologist: a doctor specially trained in administering and interpreting tests of the cognitive function of the brain
    * Pain physician: a doctor who received training in treating complex pain with procedures and medicines
    * Psychiatrist: a doctor who treats brain-behavioral disease with drugs
    * Psychologist: a doctor who treat brain-behavioral conditions with talk therapy
    * Radiologist: a doctor who received extra training in interpreting medical images and in performing different procedures using imaging technology specifically for treating brain and nervous system disorders
    * Nurse practitioners (NPs)
    * Physician assistants (PAs)
    * Nutritionists or dietitians
    * Primary care doctors
    * Physical therapists, who help with mobility, strength, balance, and flexibility
    * Occupational therapists, who help keep people functioning well in the home and at work
    * Speech-language therapists, who help with speech, language, and understanding 

This list is not all-inclusive.

## References

Brazier MAB. The emergence of electrophysiology as an aid to neurology. In:
Aminoff MJ, ed. _Aminoff's Electrodiagnosis in Clinical Neurology_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2012:chap 1.

Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL. Diagnosis of neurological
disease. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's
Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap
1.

Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL. Laboratory investigations in
diagnosis and management of neurological disease. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J,
Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 33.

Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL. Management of neurological
disease. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SK, eds. _Bradley's
Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap
53.

Meyer PT, Rijntjes M, Hellwig S, KlÃ¶ppel S, Weiller C. Functional
neuroimaging: functional magnetic resonance imaging, positron emission
tomography, and single-photon emission computed tomography. In: Daroff RB,
Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical
Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 41.

## Review Date 11/22/2017

Updated by: Luc Jasmin, MD, PhD, FRCS (C), FACS, Department of Surgery at
Providence Medical Center, Medford OR; Department of Surgery at Ashland
Community Hospital, Ashland OR; Department of Maxillofacial Surgery at UCSF,
San Francisco, CA. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Brain Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BrainDiseases_thumb.jpg)Brain
Diseases _Read more_

![Neurologic
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NeurologicDiseases_thumb.jpg)Neurologic
Diseases _Read more_

![Peripheral Nerve
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PeripheralNerveDisorders_thumb.jpg)Peripheral
Nerve Disorders _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

