Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000351.htm    
                                Description: Pseudotumor cerebri syndrome is a condition in which the pressure inside the skull is increased. The brain is affected in a way that the condition appears to be, but is not, a tumor.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pseudotumor cerebri syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000351.htm

# Pseudotumor cerebri syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pseudotumor cerebri syndrome is a condition in which the pressure inside the
skull is increased. The brain is affected in a way that the condition appears
to be, but is not, a tumor.

## Causes

The condition occurs more often in women than men, especially in young obese
women 20 to 40 years old. It is rare in infants, but can occur in children.
Before puberty, it occurs equally in boys and girls.

The cause is unknown.

Certain medicines can increase the risk of developing this condition. These
medicines include:

    * Amiodarone
    * Birth control pills such as levonorgestrel (Norplant)
    * Cyclosporine
    * Cytarabine
    * Growth hormone
    * Isotretinoin
    * Levothyroxine (children)
    * Lithium carbonate
    * Minocycline
    * Nalidixic acid
    * Nitrofurantoin
    * Phenytoin
    * Steroids (starting or stopping them)
    * Sulfa antibiotics
    * Tamoxifen
    * Tetracycline
    * Certain drugs that contain Vitamin A, such as cis-retinoic acid (Accutane)

The following factors are also related to this condition:

    * Down syndrome
    * Behcet disease
    * Chronic kidney failure
    * Endocrine (hormone) disorders such as Addison disease, Cushing disease, hypoparathyroidism, polycystic ovary syndrome
    * Following treatment (embolization) of an arteriovenous malformation
    * Infectious diseases such as HIV/AIDS, Lyme disease, following chickenpox in children
    * Iron deficiency anemia
    * Obesity
    * Obstructive sleep apnea
    * Pregnancy 
    * Sarcoidosis (inflammation of the lymph nodes, lungs, liver, eyes, skin, or other tissues)
    * Systemic lupus erythematosis
    * Turner syndrome

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

    * Headaches, throbbing, daily, irregular and worse in the morning
    * Neck pain
    * Blurred vision
    * Buzzing sound in the ears (tinnitus)
    * Dizziness
    * Double vision (diplopia)
    * Nausea, vomiting
    * Vision problems such as flashing or even loss of vision
    * Low back pain, radiating along both legs

Headaches may get worse during physical activity, especially when you tighten
the stomach muscles during coughing or straining.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. Signs of this condition
include:

    * Bulging anterior fontanelle in infants
    * Increased head size
    * Swelling of the optic nerve in the back of the eye (papilledema)
    * Inward turning of the eye toward the nose (sixth cranial, or abducens, nerve palsy)

Even though there is increased pressure in the skull, there is no change in
alertness.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Funduscopic examination
    * CT scan of the head
    * Eye exam, including visual field testing
    * MRI of the head with MR venography
    * Lumbar puncture (spinal tap) 

Diagnosis is made when other health conditions are ruled out. These include
conditions that may cause increased pressure in the skull, such as:

    * Hydrocephalus
    * Tumor
    * Venous sinus thrombosis 

## Treatment

Treatment is aimed at the cause of the pseudotumor. The main goal of
treatments is to preserve vision and reduce the severity of headaches.

A lumbar puncture can help relieve pressure in the brain and prevent vision
problems.Â Repeat lumbar punctures are helpful for pregnant women in order to
delay surgery until after delivery.

Other treatments may include:

    * Fluid or salt restriction
    * Medicines such as corticosteroids, acetazolamide, furosemide, and topiramate
    * Shunting procedures to relieve pressure from spinal fluid buildup
    * Surgery to relieve pressure on the optic nerve
    * Weight loss 
    * Treatment of the underlying disease, such as vitamin A overdose

People will need to have their vision closely monitored. There can be vision
loss, which is sometimes permanent. Follow-up MRI or CT scans may be done to
rule out problems such as tumors or hydrocephalus (buildup of fluid inside the
skull).

In some cases, the pressure inside the brain remains high for many years.
Symptoms can return in some people. A small number of people have symptoms
that slowly get worse and lead to blindness.

## Outlook (prognosis)

Sometimes the condition disappears on its own within 6 months. Symptoms can
return in some people. A small number of people have symptoms that slowly get
worse and lead to blindness.

## Possible Complications

Vision loss is a serious complication of this condition.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you or your child has any of the symptoms listed above.

## Alternative Names

Idiopathic intracranial hypertension; Benign intracranial hypertension

## Images

    * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system

## References

Miller NR. Pseudotumor cerebri. In: Winn HR, ed. _Youmans and Winn
Neurological Surgery_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 164.

Rosenberg GA. Brain edema and disorders of cerebrospinal fluid circulation.
In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology
in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 88.

Varma R, Williams SD. Neurology. In: Zitelli BJ, McIntire SC, Nowalk AJ, eds.
_Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of Pediatric Physical Diagnosis_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier, 2018:chap 16.

## Review Date 11/22/2017

Updated by: Luc Jasmin, MD, PhD, FRCS (C), FACS, Department of Surgery at
Providence Medical Center, Medford OR; Department of Surgery at Ashland
Community Hospital, Ashland OR; Department of Maxillofacial Surgery at UCSF,
San Francisco, CA. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Brain Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BrainDiseases_thumb.jpg)Brain
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

