Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000713.htm    
                                Description: A subdural hematoma is a collection of blood between the covering of the brain (dura) and the surface of the brain.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Subdural hematoma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000713.htm

# Subdural hematoma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A subdural hematoma is a collection of blood between the covering of the brain
(dura) and the surface of the brain.

## Causes

A subdural hematoma is most often the result of a severe head injury. This
type of subdural hematoma is among the deadliest of all head injuries. The
bleeding fills the brain area very rapidly, compressing brain tissue. This
often results in brain injury and may lead to death.

Subdural hematomas can also occur after a minor head injury. The amount of
bleeding is smaller and occurs more slowly. This type of subdural hematoma is
often seen in older adults. These may go unnoticed for many days to weeks and
are called chronic subdural hematomas.

With any subdural hematoma, tiny veins between the surface of the brain and
its outer covering (the dura) stretch and tear, allowing blood to collect. In
older adults, the veins are often already stretched because of brain shrinkage
(atrophy) and are more easily injured.

Some subdural hematomas occur without cause (spontaneously).

The following increase the risk for a subdural hematoma:

    * Medicines that thin the blood (such as warfarin or aspirin)
    * Long-term alcohol use
    * Medical conditions that make your blood clot poorly
    * Repeated head injury, such as from falls
    * Very young or very old age

In infants and young children, a subdural hematoma may occur after child
abuse.

## Symptoms

Depending on the size of the hematoma and where it presses on the brain, any
of the following symptoms may occur:

    * Confused or slurred speech
    * Problems with balance or walking
    * Headache 
    * Lack of energy or confusion
    * Seizures or loss of consciousness
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Weakness or numbness
    * Vision problems

In infants, symptoms may include:

    * Bulging fontanelles (the soft spots of the baby's skull)
    * Separated sutures (the areas where growing skull bones join)
    * Feeding problems
    * Seizures
    * High-pitched cry, irritability
    * Increased head size (circumference)
    * Increased sleepiness or lethargy
    * Persistent vomiting

## Exams and Tests

Get medical help right away after a head injury. Do not delay. Older adults
should receive medical care if they show signs of memory problems or mental
decline, even if they don't seem to have an injury.

The health care provider will likely order a brain imaging test, such as a CT
or MRI scan,Â if there are any of the symptoms listed above.

## Treatment

A subdural hematoma is an emergency condition.

Emergency surgery may be needed to reduce pressure within the brain. This may
involve drilling a small hole in the skull to drain any blood and relieve
pressure on the brain. Large hematomas or solid blood clots may need to be
removed through a procedure called a craniotomy, which creates a larger
opening in the skull.

Medicines that may be used depend on the type of subdural hematoma, how severe
the symptoms are, and how much brain damage has occurred. Medicines may
include:

    * Diuretics (water pills) and corticosteroids to reduce swelling
    * Anti-seizure drugs to control or prevent seizures

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Outlook depends on the type and location of head injury, the size of the blood
collection, and how soon treatment is started.

Acute subdural hematomas have high rates of death and brain injury. Chronic
subdural hematomas have better outcomes in most cases. Symptoms often go away
after the blood collection is drained. Physical therapy is sometimes needed to
help the person get back to their usual level of functioning.

Seizures often occur at the time the hematoma forms, or up to months or years
after treatment. But medicines can help control the seizures.

## Possible Complications

Complications that may result include:

    * Brain herniation (pressure on the brain severe enough to cause coma and death)
    * Persistent symptoms such as memory loss, dizziness, headache, anxiety, and difficulty concentrating
    * Seizures
    * Short-term or permanent weakness, numbness, difficulty speaking

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

A subdural hematoma is a medical emergency. Call 911 or your local emergency
number, or go to an emergency room after a head injury. Do not delay.

Spinal injuries often occur with head injuries, so try to keep the person's
neck still if you must move them before help arrives.

## Prevention

Always use safety equipment at work and play to reduce your risk for a head
injury. For example, use hard hats, bicycle or motorcycle helmets, and seat
belts. Older individuals should be particularly careful to avoid falls.

## Alternative Names

Subdural hemorrhage; Traumatic brain injury - subdural hematoma; TBI -
subdural hematoma; Head injury - subdural hematoma

## Patient Instructions

    * Brain surgery - discharge

## Images

    * ![Subdural hematoma](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8737t.jpg)Subdural hematoma
    * ![Increased intracranial pressure](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9187t.jpg)Increased intracranial pressure

## References

Papa L, Goldberg SA. Head trauma. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M,
eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 34.

Stippler M. Craniocerebral trauma. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC,
Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 62.

## Review Date 4/30/2018

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, Attending Neurologist and Assistant
Professor of Clinical Neurology, SUNY Stony Brook, School of Medicine, Stony
Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Brain Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BrainDiseases_thumb.jpg)Brain
Diseases _Read more_

![Traumatic Brain
Injury](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TraumaticBrainInjury_thumb.jpg)Traumatic
Brain Injury _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

