Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000783.htm    
                                Description: A brain abscess is a collection of pus, immune cells, and other material in the brain, usually from a bacterial or fungal infection.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Brain abscess

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000783.htm

# Brain abscess

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A brain abscess is a collection of pus, immune cells, and other material in
the brain, usually from a bacterial or fungal infection.

## Causes

Brain abscesses commonly occur when bacteria or fungi infect part of the
brain. As a result, swelling and irritation (inflammation) develop. Infected
brain cells, white blood cells, live and dead bacteria, or fungi collect in an
area of the brain. Tissue forms around this area and creates a mass, or
abscess.

The germs that cause a brain abscess can reach the brain through the blood.
Or, they enter the brain directly, such as during brain surgery. In some
cases, a brain abscess develops from an infection in the sinuses.

The source of the infection is often not found. However, the most common
source is a lung infection. Less often, a heart infection is the cause.

The following raise your chance of developing a brain abscess:

    * A weakened immune system (such as in people withÂ HIV/AIDS)
    * Chronic disease, such as cancer
    * Drugs that suppress the immune system (corticosteroids or chemotherapy)
    * Congenital heart disease

## Symptoms

Symptoms may develop slowly, over a period of several weeks, or they may
develop suddenly. They may include:

    * Changes in mental status, such as confusion, slow response or thinking, unable to focus, or sleepiness
    * Decreased ability to feel sensation
    * Fever and chills
    * Headache, seizures, or stiff neck
    * Language problems
    * Loss of muscle function, typically on one side
    * Vision changes
    * Vomiting
    * Weakness

## Exams and Tests

A brain and nervous system (neurological) exam will usually show signs of
increased pressure inside the skull and problems with brain function.

Tests to diagnose a brain abscess may include:

    * Blood cultures
    * Chest x-ray
    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * Head CT scan
    * Electroencephalogram (EEG)
    * MRI of head
    * Testing for the presence of antibodies to certain germs 

A needle biopsy is usually performed to identify the cause of the infection.

## Treatment

A brain abscess is a medical emergency. Pressure inside the skull may become
high enough to be life threatening. You will need to stay in the hospital
until the condition is stable. Some people may need life support.

Medicine, not surgery, is recommended if you have:

    * A small abscess (less than 2 cm)
    * An abscess deep in the brain
    * An abscess and meningitis
    * Several abscesses (rare)
    * Shunts in the brain for hydrocephalus (in some cases, the shunt may need to be removed temporarily or replaced)
    * An infection called toxoplasmosis in a person with HIV/AIDS 

You may be prescribed several different types of antibiotics to make sure
treatment works.

Antifungal medicines may also be prescribed if the infection is likely caused
by a fungus.

Surgery is needed if:

    * Increased pressure in the brain continues or gets worse
    * The brain abscess does not get smaller after medicine
    * The brain abscess contains gas (produced by some types of bacteria)
    * The brain abscess might break open (rupture)
    * The brain abscess is large (more than 2 cm) 

Surgery consists of opening the skull, exposing the brain, and draining the
abscess. Laboratory tests are often done to examine the fluid. This helps
identify the cause of the infection, so that the right antibiotics or
antifungal medicine can be prescribed.

Needle aspiration guided by CT or MRI scan may be needed for a deep abscess.
During this procedure, medicines may be injected directly into the mass.

Certain diuretics (medicines that reduce fluid in the body, also called water
pills) and steroids may also be used to reduce the swelling of the brain.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

If untreated, a brain abscess is almost always deadly. With treatment, the
death rate is about 10% to 30%. The earlier treatment is received, the better.

Some people may have long-term nervous system problems after surgery.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Brain damage
    * Meningitis that is severe and life threatening
    * Return (recurrence) of infection
    * Seizures 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Go to a hospital emergency room or call the local emergency number (such as
911) if you have symptoms of a brain abscess.

## Prevention

You can reduce the risk of developing a brain abscess by getting treated for
infections or health problems that can cause them.

Some people, including those with certain heart disorders, may receive
antibiotics before dental or other procedures to help reduce the risk of
infection.

## Alternative Names

Abscess - brain; Cerebral abscess; CNS abscess

## Patient Instructions

    * Brain surgery - discharge

## Images

    * ![Amebic brain abscess](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1047t.jpg)Amebic brain abscess
    * ![Brain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17250t.jpg)Brain

## References

Tunkel AR. Brain abscess. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell,
Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated
Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 92.

Tunkel AR, Winn HR, Scheld WM. Brain abscess. In: Winn HR, ed. _Youman's and
Winn Neurological Surgery_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 39.

## Review Date 12/1/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Antibiotics](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AntibioticsAndAbscess_thumb.jpg)Abscess
_Read more_

![Brain Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BrainDiseases_thumb.jpg)Brain
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

