Link: https://medlineplus.gov/postpartumdepression.html    
                                Description: Postpartum (post-pregnancy) depression can begin anytime within the first year after childbirth. Learn about the symptoms of postpartum depression.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Postpartum Depression

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/postpartumdepression.html

#  Postpartum Depression

Also called: Post-pregnancy depression

On this page

### Basics

  * Summary
  * Start Here
  * Diagnosis and Tests
  * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

  * Related Issues
  * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

  * Videos and Tutorials

### Research

  * Clinical Trials
  * Journal Articles

### Resources

  * Find an Expert

### For You

  * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Many women have the baby blues after childbirth. If you have the baby blues,
you may have mood swings, feel sad, anxious or overwhelmed, have crying
spells, lose your appetite, or have trouble sleeping. The baby blues most
often go away within a few days or a week. The symptoms are not severe and do
not need treatment.

The symptoms of postpartum depression last longer and are more severe. You may
also feel hopeless and worthless and lose interest in the baby. You may have
thoughts of hurting yourself or the baby. Very rarely, new mothers develop
something even more serious. They may have hallucinations or try to hurt
themselves or the baby. They need to get treatment right away, often in the
hospital.

Postpartum depression can begin anytime within the first year after
childbirth. The cause is unknown. Hormonal and physical changes after birth
and the stress of caring for a new baby may play a role. Women who have had
depression are at higher risk.

If you think you have postpartum depression, tell your health care provider.
Medicines, including antidepressants, and talk therapy can help you get well.

Dept. of Health and Human Services Office on Women's Health

## Start Here

  * Perinatal Depression ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Mental Health) Also in Spanish
  * Postpartum Depression (Nemours Foundation)
  * Postpartum Depression (American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists)
  * Postpartum Depression (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
  * Postpartum Depression (Department of Health and Human Services, Office on Women's Health) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

  * Postpartum Depression Screening ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

  * Antidepressants: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * Depression Treatment (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
  * Psychotherapies ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Mental Health)

## Related Issues

  * Tips for Postpartum Dads and Partners (Postpartum Support International)
  * Understanding Motherhood and Mood - Baby Blues and Beyond (American Academy of Pediatrics) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

  * Anxiety During Pregnancy and Postpartum (Postpartum Support International)
  * Postpartum Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (Postpartum Support International)
  * Postpartum Psychosis (Postpartum Support International)

## Videos and Tutorials

  * Postpartum Blues (March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation)

## Clinical Trials

  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Depression, Postpartum ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

  * Article: Assessment of Postpartum Depression and Anxiety among Females Attending Primary Health...
  * Article: Maternal psychosocial risk factors and lower respiratory tract infection (LRTI) during...
  * Article: Multiple forms of discrimination and postpartum depression among indigenous Palestinian-Arab, Jewish...
  * Postpartum Depression -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

  * Behavioral Health Treatment Services Locator (Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration)
  * National Institute of Mental Health ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)
  * Postpartum Psychosis Help (Postpartum Support International)

## Patient Handouts

  * Postpartum depression (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Postpartum
Depression](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PostpartumDepression.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

  * Postpartum depression

## Related Health Topics

  * Depression

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Postpartum Depression is the
National Institute of Mental Health

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Postpartum
Depression_

## NIH MedlinePlus Magazine

  * New Treatment Approved for Postpartum Depression

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 3 April 2020 Topic last reviewed: 16 February 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

