Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001393.htm    
                                Description: Hepatocerebral degeneration is a brain disorder that occurs in people with liver damage.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hepatocerebral degeneration

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001393.htm

# Hepatocerebral degeneration

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hepatocerebral degeneration is a brain disorder that occurs in people with
liver damage.

## Causes

This condition may occur in any case of acquired liver failure, including
severe hepatitis.

Liver damage can lead to the buildup of ammonia and other toxic materials in
the body. This happens when the liver doesn't work properly. It does not break
down and eliminate these chemicals. The toxic materials can damage brain
tissue.

Specific areas of the brain, such as the basal ganglia, are more likely to be
injured from liver failure. The basal ganglia help control movement. This
condition is the "non-Wilsonian" type. This means that the liver damage is not
caused by copper deposits in the liver. This is a key feature of Wilson
disease.  

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

    * Difficulty walking
    * Impaired intellectual function
    * Jaundice
    * Muscle spasm (myoclonus)
    * Rigidity
    * Shaking of arms, head (tremor)
    * Twitching
    * Uncontrolled body movements (chorea)
    * Unsteady walking (ataxia) 

## Exams and Tests

Signs include:

    * Coma
    * Fluid in the abdomen that causes swelling (ascites)
    * Gastrointestinal bleeding from enlarged veins in the food pipe (esophageal varices)

A nervous system (neurological) exam may show signs of:

    * Dementia
    * Involuntary movements
    * Walking instability

Laboratory tests may show a high ammonia level in the bloodstream and abnormal
liver function.

Other tests may include:

    * MRI of the head
    * EEG (may show general slowing of brain waves)
    * CT scan of the head

## Treatment

Treatment helps reduce the toxic chemicals that build up from liver failure.
It may include antibiotics or a medicine such as lactulose, which lowers the
level of ammonia in the blood.

A treatment called branched-chain amino acid therapy may also:

    * Improve symptoms
    * Reverse brain damage

There is no specific treatment for the neurologic syndrome, because it is
caused by irreversible liver damage. A liver transplant may cure the liver
disease. However, this operation may not reverse the symptoms of brain damage.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

This is a long-term (chronic) condition that may lead to irreversible nervous
system (neurological) symptoms.

The person may continue to get worse and die without a liver transplant. If a
transplant is done early, the neurological syndrome may be reversible.

## Possible Complications

Complications include:

    * Hepatic coma
    * Severe brain damage 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have any symptoms of liver disease.

## Prevention

It is not possible to prevent all forms of liver disease. However, alcoholic
and viral hepatitis may be prevented.

To reduce your risk of getting alcoholic or viral hepatitis:

    * Avoid risky behaviors, such as IV drug use or unprotected sex.
    * Don't drink, or drink only in moderation. 

## Alternative Names

Chronic acquired (Non-Wilsonian) hepatocerebral degeneration; Hepatic
encephalopathy; Portosystemic encephalopathy

## Images

    * ![Liver anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8848t.jpg)Liver anatomy

## References

Garcia-Tsao G. Cirrhosis and its sequelae. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 153.

Haq IU, Tate JA, Siddiqui MS, Okun MS. Clinical overview of movement
disorders. In: Winn HR, ed. _Youmans and Winn Neurological Surgery_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 84.

## Review Date 10/24/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Brain Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BrainDiseases_thumb.jpg)Brain
Diseases _Read more_

![Hepatitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hepatitis_thumb.jpg)Hepatitis
_Read more_

![Liver Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LiverDisease_thumb.jpg)Liver
Diseases _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

