Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007232.htm    
                                Description: Periventricular leukomalacia (PVL) is a type of brain injury that affects premature infants. The condition involves the death of small areas of brain tissue around fluid-filled areas called ventricles.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Periventricular leukomalacia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007232.htm

# Periventricular leukomalacia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Periventricular leukomalacia (PVL) is a type of brain injury that affects
premature infants. The condition involves the death of small areas of brain
tissue around fluid-filled areas called ventricles. The damage creates "holes"
in the brain. "Leuko" refers to the brain's white matter. "Periventricular"
refers to the area around the ventricles.

## Causes

PVL is much more common in premature infants than in full-term infants.

A major cause is thought to be changes in blood flow to the area around the
ventricles of the brain. This area is fragile and prone to injury, especially
before 32 weeks of gestation.

Infection around the time of delivery may also play a role in causing PVL. The
risk for PVL is higher for babies who are more premature and more unstable at
birth.

Premature babies who have intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH) are also at
increased risk for developing this condition.

## Exams and Tests

Tests used to diagnose PVL include ultrasound and MRI of the head.

## Treatment

There is no treatment for PVL. Premature babies' heart, lung, intestine, and
kidney functions are watched closely and treated in the newborn intensive care
unit (NICU). This helps reduce the risk of developing PVL.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

PVL often leads to nervous system and developmental problems in growing
babies. These problems most often occur during theÂ firstÂ to secondÂ yearÂ of
life. It may cause cerebral palsy (CP), especially tightness or increased
muscle tone (spasticity) in the legs.

Babies with PVL are at risk for major nervous system problems. These are
likely to include movements such as sitting, crawling, walking, and moving the
arms. These babies may need physical therapy. Extremely premature babies may
have more problems with learning than with movement.

A baby who is diagnosed with PVL should be monitored by a developmental
pediatrician or a pediatric neurologist. The child should see the regular
pediatrician for scheduled exams.

## Alternative Names

PVL; Brain injury - infants

## Images

    * ![Periventricular leukomalacia](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/21774t.jpg)Periventricular leukomalacia 

## References

Carlo WA, Ambalavanan N. Nervous system disorders. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton
BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 99.

Greenberg JM, Narendran V, Schibler MD, Warner B, Lockwood CJ, Moore TR,
Greene MF. Neonatal morbidities of prenatal and perinatal origin. In: Creasy
RK, Resnick R, Iams JD, et al, eds. _Creasy and Resnik's Maternal-Fetal
Medicine: Principles and Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2014:chap 72.

Neil JJ, Volpe JJ. Encephalopathy of prematurity: clinical-neurological
features, diagnosis, imaging, prognosis, therapy. In: Volpe JJ, Inder TE,
Darras BT, et al, eds. _Volpe's Neurology of the Newborn_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 16.

## Review Date 12/13/2017

Updated by: Kimberly G. Lee, MD, MSc, IBCLC, Associate Professor of
Pediatrics, Division of Neonatology, Medical University of South Carolina,
Charleston, SC. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Brain Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BrainDiseases_thumb.jpg)Brain
Diseases _Read more_

![Premature
Babies](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PrematureBabies_thumb.jpg)Premature
Babies _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

