Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000082.htm    
                                Description: Pneumonia is inflamed or swollen lung tissue due to infection with a germ.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Mycoplasma pneumonia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000082.htm

# Mycoplasma pneumonia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pneumonia is inflamed or swollen lung tissue due to infection with a germ.

Mycoplasma pneumonia is caused by the bacteria _Mycoplasma pneumoniae_ ( _M
pneumoniae_ ) _._

This type of pneumonia is also called atypical pneumonia because the symptoms
are different from those of pneumonia due to other common bacteria.

## Causes

Mycoplasma pneumonia usually affects people younger than 40.

People who live or work in crowded areas such as schools and homeless shelters
have a high chance of getting this condition. But many people who get sick
with it have no known risk factors.

## Symptoms

Symptoms are often mild and appear over 1 to 3 weeks. They may become more
severe in some people.

Common symptoms include any ofÂ the following:

    * Chest pain
    * Chills
    * Cough, usually dry and not bloody
    * Excessive sweating
    * Fever (may be high)
    * Headache
    * Sore throat 

Less common symptoms include:

    * Ear pain
    * Eye pain or soreness
    * Muscle aches and joint stiffness
    * Neck lump
    * Rapid breathing
    * Skin lesions or rash 

## Exams and Tests

People with suspected pneumonia should have a complete medical evaluation. It
may be hard for your health care provider to tell whether you have pneumonia,
bronchitis, or another respiratory infection, so you may need a chest x-ray.

Depending on how severe your symptoms are, other tests may be done, including:

    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * Blood tests
    * Bronchoscopy (rarely needed)
    * CT scan of the chest
    * Measuring levels of oxygen and carbon dioxide in the blood (arterial blood gases)
    * Nose or throat swab to check for bacteria
    * Open lung biopsy (only done in very serious illnesses when the diagnosis cannot be made from other sources)
    * Sputum tests to check for mycoplasma bacteria 

In many cases, it is not necessary to make the specific diagnosis before
starting treatment.

## Treatment

To feel better, you can take these self-care measures at home:

    * Control your fever with aspirin, NSAIDs (such as ibuprofen or naproxen), or acetaminophen. DO NOT give aspirin to children because it may cause a dangerous illness called Reye syndrome.
    * DO NOT take cough medicines without first talking to your provider. Cough medicines may make it harder for your body to cough up the extra sputum.
    * Drink plenty of fluids to help loosen secretions and bring up phlegm.
    * Get a lot of rest. Have someone else do household chores.

Antibiotics are used to treat atypical pneumonia:

    * You may be able to take antibiotics by mouth at home.
    * If your condition is severe, you will likely be admitted to a hospital. There, you will be given antibiotics through a vein (intravenously), as well as oxygen.
    * Antibiotics might be used for 2 weeks or more.
    * Finish all the antibiotics you've been prescribed, even if you feel better. If you stop the medicine too soon, the pneumonia can return and may be harder to treat.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most people recover completely without antibiotics, although antibiotics may
speed recovery. In untreated adults, cough and weakness can last for up to a
month. The disease can be more serious in older adults and in those with a
weakened immune system.

## Possible Complications

Complications that may result include any of the following:

    * Ear infections
    * Hemolytic anemia, a condition in which there are not enough red blood cells in the blood because the body is destroying them
    * Skin rashes

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your provider if you develop a fever, cough, or shortness of breath.
There are many causes for these symptoms. The provider will need to rule out
pneumonia.

Also, call if you have been diagnosed with this type of pneumonia and your
symptoms become worse after improving first.

## Prevention

Wash your hands often, and have other people around you do the same.

If your immune system is weak, stay away from crowds. Ask visitors who have a
cold to wear a mask.

DO NOT smoke. If you do, get help to quit.

Get a flu shot every year. Ask your provider if you need a pneumonia vaccine.

## Alternative Names

Walking pneumonia; Community-acquired pneumonia - mycoplasma; Community-
acquired pneumonia - atypical

## Patient Instructions

    * Pneumonia in adults - discharge

## Images

    * ![Lungs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1103t.jpg)Lungs
    * ![Erythema multiforme, circular lesions - hands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1837t.jpg)Erythema multiforme, circular lesions - hands
    * ![Erythema multiforme, target lesions on the palm](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1856t.jpg)Erythema multiforme, target lesions on the palm
    * ![Erythema multiforme on the leg](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2413t.jpg)Erythema multiforme on the leg
    * ![Exfoliation following erythroderma](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2419t.jpg)Exfoliation following erythroderma
    * ![Respiratory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9248t.jpg)Respiratory system

## References

Baum SG. Mycoplasma infections. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 317.

Holzman RS, Simberkoff MS. _Mycoplasma pneumoniae_ and atypical pneumonia. In:
Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's
Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 185.

Torres A, MenÃ©ndez R, Wunderink RG. Bacterial pneumonia and lung abscess. In:
Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of
Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap
33.

## Review Date 7/28/2018

Updated by: Denis Hadjiliadis, MD, MHS, Paul F. Harron, Jr. Associate
Professor of Medicine, Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care, Perelman School
of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pneumonia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pneumonia_thumb.jpg)Pneumonia
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

