Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000121.htm    
                                Description: Pneumonia is a breathing condition in which there is inflammation (swelling) or an infection of the lungs or large airways.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Aspiration pneumonia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000121.htm

# Aspiration pneumonia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pneumonia is a breathing condition in which there is inflammation (swelling)
or an infection of the lungs or large airways.

Aspiration pneumonia occurs when food, saliva, liquids, or vomit is breathed
into the lungs or airways leading to the lungs, instead of being swallowed
into the esophagus and stomach.

## Causes

The type of bacteria that caused the pneumonia depends on:

    * Your health
    * Where you live (at home or in a long-term nursing facility, for example)
    * Whether you were recently hospitalized
    * Your recent antibiotic use
    * Whether your immune system is weakened 

Risk factors for breathing in (aspiration) of foreign material into the lungs
are:

    * Being less alert due to medicines, illness, surgery, or other reasons
    * Coma
    * Drinking large amounts of alcohol
    * Receiving medicine to put you into a deep sleep for surgery (general anesthesia)
    * Old age
    * Poor gag reflex in people who are not alert (unconscious or semi-conscious) after a stroke or brain injury
    * Problems with swallowing

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

    * Chest pain
    * Coughing up foul-smelling, greenish or dark phlegm (sputum), or phlegm that contains pus or blood
    * Fatigue
    * Fever 
    * Shortness of breath
    * Wheezing
    * Breath odor
    * Excessive sweating 
    * Problems swallowing 
    * Confusion

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will listen for crackles or abnormal breath sounds
when listening to your chest with a stethoscope. Tapping on your chest wall
(percussion) helps the provider listen and feel for abnormal sounds in your
chest.

If pneumonia is suspected, the provider will likely order a chest x-ray.

The following tests may also help diagnose this condition:

    * Arterial blood gas
    * Blood culture
    * BronchoscopyÂ (uses a special scope to view the lung airways)
    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * X-rays or CT scan of the chest
    * Sputum culture
    * Swallowing tests 

## Treatment

Some people may need to be hospitalized. Treatment depends on how severe the
pneumonia is and how ill the person is before the aspiration (chronic
illness). Sometimes a ventilator (breathing machine) is needed to support
breathing.

You will likely receive antibiotics.

You may need to have your swallowing function tested. People who have trouble
swallowing may need to use other feeding methods to reduce the risk of
aspiration.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Outcome depends on:

    * The health of the person before getting pneumonia
    * The type of bacteria causing the pneumonia
    * How much of the lungs are involved 

More severe infections may result in long-term damage to the lungs.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Lung abscess
    * Shock
    * Spread of infection to the bloodstream (bacteremia)
    * Spread of infection to other areas of the body
    * Respiratory failure
    * Death 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider, go to the emergency room, or call the local emergency
number (such as 911) if you have:

    * Chest pain
    * Chills
    * Fever
    * Shortness of breath
    * Wheezing 

## Alternative Names

Anaerobic pneumonia; Aspiration of vomitus; Necrotizing pneumonia; Aspiration
pneumonitis

## Patient Instructions

    * Pneumonia in adults - discharge

## Images

    * ![Pneumococci organism](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1054t.jpg)Pneumococci organism
    * ![Bronchoscopy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1077t.jpg)Bronchoscopy
    * ![Lungs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1103t.jpg)Lungs
    * ![Respiratory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9248t.jpg)Respiratory system

## References

Musher DM. Overview of pneumonia. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 91.

Torres A, Menendez R, Wunderink RG. Bacterial pneumonia and lung abscess. In:
Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of
Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap
33.

## Review Date 7/23/2019

Updated by: Denis Hadjiliadis, MD, MHS, Paul F. Harron, Jr. Associate
Professor of Medicine, Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care, Perelman School
of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pneumonia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pneumonia_thumb.jpg)Pneumonia
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

