Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003725.htm    
                                Description: Pleural fluid culture is a test that examines a sample of fluid that has collected in the pleural space to see if you have an infection or understand the cause of buildup of fluid in this space. The pleural    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pleural fluid culture

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003725.htm

# Pleural fluid culture

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pleural fluid culture is a test that examines a sample of fluid that has
collected in the pleural space to see if you have an infection or understand
the cause of buildup of fluid in this space. The pleural space is the area
between the lining of the outside of the lungs (pleura) and the wall of the
chest. When fluid collects in the pleural space, the condition is called
pleural effusion.

## How the Test is Performed

A procedure called thoracentesis is used to get a sample of pleural fluid. The
sample is sent to a laboratory and examined under a microscope for signs of
infection. The sample is also placed in a special dish (culture). It is then
watched to see if bacteria or any other germs grow.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is needed before the test. A chest x-ray will be
performed before and after the test.

DO NOT cough, breathe deeply, or move during the test to avoid injury to the
lung.

## How the Test will Feel

For thoracentesis, you sit on the edge of a chair or bed with your head and
arms resting on a table. The health care provider cleans the skin around the
insertion site. Numbing medicine (anesthetic) is injected into the skin.

A needle is placed through the skin and muscles of the chest wall into the
pleural space. As fluid drains into a collection bottle, you may cough a bit.
This is because your lung reexpands to fill the space where fluid had been.
This sensation lasts for a few hours after the test.

During the test, tell your provider if you have sharp chest pain or shortness
of breath.

## Why the Test is Performed

YourÂ provider may order this test if you have signs of a certainÂ infection
or if a chest x-ray or CT scan of the chest shows you have too much fluid in
the space around the lungs.

## Normal Results

A normal result means no bacteria or fungi were seen in the test sample.

A normal value is no growth of any bacteria. Talk to your doctor about the
meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may indicate:

    * Empyema (collection of pus in the pleural space)
    * Lung abscess (collection of pus in a lung)
    * Pneumonia
    * Tuberculosis

## Risks

Risks of thoracentesis are:

    * Collapsed lung (pneumothorax)
    * Excessive loss of blood
    * Fluid reaccumulation
    * Infection
    * Pulmonary edema
    * Respiratory distress
    * Serious complications are uncommon 

## Alternative Names

Culture - pleural fluid

## Images

    * ![Pleural culture](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9750t.jpg)Pleural culture

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Thoracentesis - diagnostic. In: Chernecky CC, Berger
BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO:
Elsevier Saunders; 2013:1068-1070.

Septimus EJ. Pleural effusion and empyema. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ,
eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 70.

## Review Date 12/13/2017

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pleural
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PleuralDisorders_thumb.jpg)Pleural
Disorders _Read more_

![Pneumonia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pneumonia_thumb.jpg)Pneumonia
_Read more_

![Tuberculosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Tuberculosis_thumb.jpg)Tuberculosis
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

