Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007690.htm    
                                Description: &#10; &#10;Pneumonia is a lung infection caused by bacteria, viruses, or fungi.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pneumonia in children - community acquired

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007690.htm

# Pneumonia in children - community acquired

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pneumonia is a lung infection caused by bacteria, viruses, or fungi.

This article covers community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) in children. This type
of pneumonia occurs in healthy children who have not recently been in the
hospital or another health care facility.

Pneumonia that affects people in health care facilities, such as hospitals, is
often caused by germs that are harder to treat.  

## Causes

Viruses are the most common cause of pneumonia in infants and children.

Ways your child can get CAP include:

    * Bacteria and viruses living in the nose, sinuses, or mouth may spread to the lungs.
    * Your child may breathe some of these germs directly into the lungs.
    * Your child breathes in food, liquids, or vomit from the mouth into her lungs.

Risk factors that increase a child's chance of getting CAP include:

    * Being younger than 6 months of age
    * Being born prematurely
    * Birth defects, such as cleft palate
    * Nervous system problems, such as seizures or cerebral palsy
    * Heart or lung disease present at birth
    * Weak immune system (this can occur due to cancer treatment or disease such as HIV/AIDS)
    * Recent surgery or trauma

## Symptoms

Common symptoms of pneumonia in children include:

    * Stuffed up or runny nose, headaches
    * Loud cough 
    * Fever, which may be mild or high, with chills and sweating
    * Rapid breathing, with flared nostrils and straining of the muscles between the ribs
    * Wheezing
    * Sharp or stabbing chest pain that gets worse when breathing deeply or coughing
    * Low energy and malaise (not feeling well)
    * Vomiting or loss of appetite 

Symptoms common in children with more severe infections include:

    * Blue lips and finger nails due to too little oxygen in the blood
    * Confusion or very hard to arouse

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will listen to your child's chest with a stethoscope.
The provider will listen for crackles or abnormal breath sounds. Tapping on
the chest wall (percussion) helps the provider listen and feel for abnormal
sounds.

If pneumonia is suspected, the provider will likely order a chest x-ray.

Other tests may include:

    * Arterial blood gases to see if enough oxygen is getting into your child's blood from the lungs
    * Blood cultureÂ and sputum culture to look for the germ that may be causing the pneumonia
    * CBC to check white blood cell count
    * CT scan of the chest
    * Bronchoscopy \-- a flexible tube with a lighted camera on the end passed down into the lungs (in rare cases)
    * Removing fluid from the space between the outside lining of the lungs and the chest wall (in rare cases)

## Treatment

The provider must first decide whether your child needs to be in the hospital.

If treated in the hospital, your child will receive:

    * Fluids, electrolytes, and antibiotics through the veins or mouth
    * Oxygen therapy
    * Breathing treatments to help open up the airways 

Your child is more likely to be admitted to the hospital if he:

    * Has another serious medical problem, including long-term (chronic) health issues such as cystic fibrosis or diabetes mellitusÂ 
    * Has severe symptoms
    * Is unable to eat or drink
    * Is less than 3 to 6 months old
    * Has pneumonia due to a harmful germ
    * Has taken antibiotics at home, but isn't getting better 

If your child has CAP caused by bacteria, antibiotics will be given.
Antibiotics are not given for pneumonia caused by a virus. This is because
antibiotics do not kill viruses. Other medicines, such as antivirals, may be
given if your child has the flu.

Many children can be treated at home. If so, your child may need to take
medicines such as antibiotics or antivirals.

When giving antibiotics to your child:

    * Make sure your child does not miss any doses.
    * Make sure your child takes all the medicine as directed. Do not stop giving the medicine, even when your child starts feeling better. 

Do not give your child cough medicine or cold medicine unless your doctor says
it is OK. Coughing helps the body get rid of mucus from the lungs.

Other home care measures include:

    * To bring up mucus from the lungs, tap your child's chest gently a few times a day. This can be done as your child is lying down.
    * Have your child take a couple of deep breaths 2 or 3 times every hour. Deep breaths help open up your child's lungs.
    * Make sure your child drinks plenty of liquids. Ask your provider how much your child should drink each day.
    * Have your child get plenty of rest, including napping throughout the day if needed. 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most children improve in 7 to 10 days with treatment. Children who have severe
pneumonia with complications may need treatment for 2 to 3 weeks. Children at
risk for severe pneumonia include:

    * Children whose immune system does not work well
    * Children with lung or heart disease

## Possible Complications

In some cases, more serious problems may develop, including:

    * Life-threatening changes in the lungs that require a breathing machine (ventilator)
    * Fluid around the lung, which can become infected
    * Lung abscesses
    * Bacteria in blood (bacteremia) 

The provider may order another x-ray. This is to make sure that your child's
lungs are clear. It may take many weeks for the x-ray to clear up. Your child
may feel better for a while before the x-rays are clear.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call the provider if your child has the following symptoms:

    * Bad cough
    * Difficulty breathing (wheezing, grunting, rapid breathing)
    * Vomiting
    * Loss of appetite
    * Fever and chills
    * Breathing (respiratory) symptoms that get worse
    * Chest pain that gets worse when coughing or breathing in
    * Signs of pneumonia and a weak immune system (such as with HIV or chemotherapy)
    * Worsening symptoms after starting to get better

## Prevention

Teach older children to wash their hands often:

    * Before eating food
    * After blowing their nose
    * After going to the bathroom
    * After playing with friends
    * After coming in contact with people who are sick

Vaccines may help prevent some types of pneumonia. Be sure to get your child
vaccinated with:

    * Pneumococcal vaccine
    * Flu vaccine
    * PertussisÂ vaccine and Hib vaccine

When infants are too young to be immunized, parents or caregivers can get
themselves immunized against vaccine-preventable pneumonia.

## Alternative Names

Bronchopneumonia - children; Community-acquired pneumonia - children; CAP -
children

## Images

    * ![Pneumonia](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19680t.jpg)Pneumonia

## References

Bradley JS, Byington CL, Shah SS, et al. Executive summary: the management of
community-acquired pneumonia in infants and children older than 3 months of
age: clinical practice guidelines by the Pediatric Infectious Diseases Society
of America. _Clin Infect Dis_. 2011;53(7):617-630. PMID: 21890766
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21890766.

Kelly MS, Sandora TJ. Community-acquired pneumonia. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton
BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics._ 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 400.

Shah SS, Bradley JS. Pediatric community-acquired pneumonia. In: Cherry JD,
Harrison GJ, Kaplan SL, Steinbach WJ, Hotez PJ. _Feigin and Cherry's Textbook
of Pediatric Infectious Diseases_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 22.

## Review Date 9/22/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pneumonia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pneumonia_thumb.jpg)Pneumonia
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

