Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003553.htm    
                                Description: Sputum direct fluorescent antibody (DFA) is a lab test that looks for micro-organisms in lung secretions.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Sputum direct fluorescent antibody (DFA) test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003553.htm

# Sputum direct fluorescent antibody (DFA) test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Sputum direct fluorescent antibody (DFA) is a lab test that looks for micro-
organisms in lung secretions.

## How the Test is Performed

You will produce a sputum sample from your lungs by coughing up mucus from
deep inside your lungs. (Mucus is not the same as saliva or spit from the
mouth.)

The sample is sent to a lab. There, a fluorescent dye is added to the sample.
If micro-organisms are present, a bright glow (fluorescence) can be seen in
the sputum sample using a special microscope.

## How to Prepare for the Test

If coughing does not produce sputum, a breathing treatment may be given before
the test to trigger sputum production.

## How the Test will Feel

There is no discomfort with this test.

## Why the Test is Performed

Your doctor may order this test if you have signs of certain lung infections.

## Normal Results

Normally, there is no antigen-antibody reaction.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be due to an infection such as:

    * Legionnaire disease
    * Pneumonia due to certain bacteria

## Risks

There are no risks with this test.

## Alternative Names

Direct immunofluorescence test; Direct fluorescent antibody - sputum

## References

Banaei N, Deresinski SC, Pinsky BA. Microbiologic diagnosis of lung infection.
In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook
of Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 17.

Murray PR. The clinician and the microbiology laboratory. In: Bennett JE,
Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and
Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 16.

## Review Date 4/2/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Legionnaires'
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LegionnairesDisease_thumb.jpg)Legionnaires'
Disease _Read more_

![Pneumonia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pneumonia_thumb.jpg)Pneumonia
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

