Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000093.htm    
                                Description: Pneumonia is a lung infection. It can be caused by many different germs, including bacteria, viruses, and fungi.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pneumonia - weakened immune system

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000093.htm

# Pneumonia - weakened immune system

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pneumonia is a lung infection. It can be caused by many different germs,
including bacteria, viruses, and fungi.

This article discusses pneumonia that occurs in a person who has a hard time
fighting off infection because of problems with the immune system. This type
of disease is called "pneumonia in an immunocompromised host."

Related conditions include:

    * Hospital-acquired pneumonia
    *  _Pneumocystis jiroveci (previously called Pneumocystis carinii) pneumonia_
    * Pneumonia - cytomegalovirus
    * Pneumonia
    * Viral pneumonia
    * Walking pneumonia

## Causes

People whose immune system is not working well are less able to fight off
germs. This makes them prone to infections from germs that do not often cause
disease in healthy people. They are also more vulnerable to regular causes of
pneumonia, which can affect anyone.

Your immune system may be weakened or not work well because of:

    * Bone marrow transplant
    * Chemotherapy
    * HIV infection
    * Leukemia, lymphoma, and other conditions that harm your bone marrow
    * Autoimmune disorders
    * Medicines (including steroids, and those used to treat cancer and control autoimmune diseases)
    * Organ transplant (including kidney, heart, and lung) 

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

    * Cough (may be dry or produce mucus-like, greenish, or pus-like sputum)
    * Chills with shaking
    * Fatigue
    * Fever
    * General discomfort, uneasiness, or ill feeling (malaise)
    * Headache
    * Loss of appetite
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Sharp or stabbing chest pain that gets worse with deep breathing or coughing
    * Shortness of breath

Other symptoms that may occur:

    * Heavy sweating or night sweats
    * Stiff joints (rare)
    * Stiff muscles (rare) 

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider may hear crackles or other abnormal breath sounds
when listening to your chest with a stethoscope. Decreased volume of breath
sounds is a key sign. This finding may mean there is a buildup of fluid
between the chest wall and lung (pleural effusion).

Tests may include:

    * Arterial blood gases
    * Blood chemistries
    * Blood culture
    * Bronchoscopy (in certain cases)
    * Chest CT scan (in certain cases)
    * Chest x-ray
    * Complete blood count
    * Lung biopsy (in certain cases)
    * Serum cryptococcus antigen test
    * Serum galactomannan test
    * Galactomannan test from bronchial alveolar fluid  

    * Sputum culture
    * Sputum Gram stain
    * Sputum immunofluorescence tests (or other immune tests)
    * Urine tests (to diagnose Legionnaire disease or Histoplasmosis)

## Treatment

Antibiotics or antifungal medicines may be used, depending on the type of germ
that is causing the infection. Antibiotics are not helpful for viral
infections. You may need to stay in the hospital during the early stages of
the illness.

Oxygen and treatments to remove fluid and mucus from the respiratory system
are often needed.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Factors that may lead to a worse outcome include:

    * The pneumonia that is caused by a fungus.
    * The person has a very weak immune system. 

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Respiratory failure (a condition in which a patient can't take in oxygen and get rid of carbon dioxide without the use of a machine to deliver breaths.)
    * Sepsis
    * Spread of the infection
    * Death 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have a weakened immune system and you have symptoms
of pneumonia.

## Prevention

If you have a weakened immune system, you may receive daily antibiotics to
prevent some types of pneumonia.

Ask your provider if you should receive the influenza (flu) and pneumococcal
(pneumonia) vaccines.

Practice good hygiene. Thoroughly wash your hands with soap and water:

    * After being outdoors
    * After changing a diaper
    * After doing housework
    * After going to the bathroom
    * After touching body fluids, such as mucus or blood
    * After using the telephone
    * Before handling food or eating 

Other things you can do to reduce your exposure to germs include:

    * Keep your house clean.
    * Stay away from crowds.
    * Ask visitors who have a cold to wear a mask or not to visit.
    * DO NOT do yard work or handle plants or flowers (they can carry germs). 

## Alternative Names

Pneumonia in immunodeficient patient; Pneumonia - immunocompromised host;
Cancer - pneumonia; Chemotherapy - pneumonia; HIV - pneumonia

## Images

    * ![Pneumococci organism](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1054t.jpg)Pneumococci organism
    * ![Lungs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1103t.jpg)Lungs
    * ![The lungs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17232t.jpg)The lungs
    * ![Respiratory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9248t.jpg)Respiratory system

## References

Burns MJ. The immunocompromised patient. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-
Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 187.

Donnelly JP, Blijlevens NMA, van der Velden WJFM. Infections in the
immunocompromised host: general principles. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser
MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 309.

Marr KA. Approach to fever and suspected infection in the compromised host.
In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 281.

Wunderink RG, Restrepo MI. Pneumonia: considerations for the critically ill.
In: Parrillo JE, Dellinger RP, eds. _Critical Care Medicine: Principles of
Diagnosis and Management in the Adult_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 40.

## Review Date 5/10/2019

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pneumonia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pneumonia_thumb.jpg)Pneumonia
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

