Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000073.htm    
                                Description: Pneumonia is inflamed or swollen lung tissue due to infection with a germ.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Viral pneumonia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000073.htm

# Viral pneumonia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pneumonia is inflamed or swollen lung tissue due to infection with a germ.

Viral pneumonia is caused by a virus.

## Causes

Viral pneumonia is more likely to occur in young children and older adults.
This is because their bodies have a harder time fighting off the virus than
people with a strong immune system.

Viral pneumonia is most often caused by one of several viruses:

    * Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV)
    * Influenza
    * Parainfluenza
    * Adenovirus (less common)
    * Measles 

Serious viral pneumonia is more likely to happen in those with a weakened
immune system, such as:

    * Babies who are born too early
    * Children with heart and lung problems
    * People who have HIV/AIDS
    * People receiving chemotherapy for cancer, or other medicines that weaken the immune system
    * People who have had an organ transplant 

## Symptoms

Symptoms of viral pneumonia often begin slowly and may not be severe at first.

The most common symptoms of pneumonia are:

    * Cough (with some pneumonias you may cough up mucus, or even bloody mucus)
    * Fever
    * Shaking chills
    * Shortness of breath (may only occur when you exert yourself) 

Other symptoms include:

    * Confusion, often in older people
    * Excessive sweating and clammy skin
    * Headache
    * Loss of appetite, low energy, and fatigue
    * Sharp or stabbing chest pain that gets worse when you breathe deeply or cough
    * Fatigue 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about the
symptoms.

If the provider thinks you have pneumonia, you will also have aÂ chest x-ray.
This is becauseÂ the physical exam may not be able to tellÂ pneumonia from
other respiratory infections.

Depending on how severe your symptoms are, other tests may be done, including:

    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * CT scan of the chest
    * Blood cultures to check for viruses in the blood (or bacteria that might cause secondary infections)
    * Bronchoscopy (rarely needed)
    * Throat and nose swab tests to check for viruses such as the flu
    * Open lung biopsy (only done in very serious illnesses when the diagnosis cannot be made from other sources)
    * Sputum cultureÂ (to rule out other causes)
    * Measuring levels of oxygen and carbon dioxide in the blood

## Treatment

Antibiotics do not treat this type of lung infection. Medicines that treat
viruses may work against some pneumonias caused by influenza and the herpes
family of viruses. These medicines may be tried if the infection is caught
early.

Treatment may also involve:

    * Corticosteroid medicines
    * Increased fluids
    * Oxygen
    * Use of humidified air

A hospital stay may be needed if you are unable to drink enough and to help
with breathing if oxygen levels are too low.

People are more likely to be admitted to the hospital if they:

    * Are older than 65 years or are children
    * Are unable to care for themselves at home, eat, or drink
    * Have another serious medical problem, such as a heart or kidney problem
    * Have been taking antibiotics at home and are not getting better
    * Have severe symptoms

However, many people can be treated at home. You can take these steps at home:

    * Control your fever with aspirin, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs, such as ibuprofen or naproxen), or acetaminophen. DO NOT give aspirin to children because it may cause a dangerous illness called Reye syndrome.
    * DO NOT take cough medicines without first talking to your provider. Cough medicines may make it harder for your body to cough up sputum.
    * Drink plenty of fluids to help loosen secretions and bring up phlegm.
    * Get a lot of rest. Have someone else do chores.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most cases of viral pneumonia are mild and get better without treatment within
1Â to 3 weeks. Some cases are more serious and require a hospital stay.

## Possible Complications

More serious infections can result in respiratory failure, liver failure, and
heart failure. Sometimes, bacterial infections occur during or just after
viral pneumonia, which may lead to more serious forms of pneumonia.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if symptoms of viral pneumonia develop or your condition
gets worse after starting to improve.

## Prevention

Wash your hands often, after blowing your nose, going to the bathroom,
diapering a baby, and before eating or preparing food.

DO NOT smoke. Tobacco damages your lungs' ability to ward off infection.

A medicine called palivizumab (Synagis) may be given to children under 24
months old to prevent RSV.

The flu vaccine, is given each year to prevent pneumonia caused by the flu
virus. Those who are older and those with diabetes, asthma, chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), cancer, or weakened immune systems
should be sure to get the flu vaccine.

If your immune system is weak, stay away from crowds. Ask visitors who have a
cold to wear a mask and wash their hands.

## Alternative Names

Pneumonia - viral; Walking pneumonia - viral

## Patient Instructions

    * Pneumonia in adults - discharge
    * Pneumonia in children - discharge

## Images

    * ![Lungs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1103t.jpg)Lungs
    * ![Respiratory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9248t.jpg)Respiratory system

## References

Lee FE, Treanor JJ. Viral infections. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et
al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 32.

McCullers JA. Influenza viruses. In: Cherry JD, Harrison GJ, Kaplan SL,
Steinbach WJ, Hotez PJ, eds. _Feigin and Cherry's Textbook of Pediatric
Infectious Diseases_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 178.

Roosevelt GE. Pediatric respiratory emergencies: diseases of the lungs. In:
Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine:
Concepts and Clinical Practice._ 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap
169.

## Review Date 7/28/2018

Updated by: Denis Hadjiliadis, MD, MHS, Paul F. Harron, Jr. Associate
Professor of Medicine, Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care, Perelman School
of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pneumonia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pneumonia_thumb.jpg)Pneumonia
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

