Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000139.htm    
                                Description: Pleural effusion is a buildup of fluid in the pleural space. The pleural space is the area between the layers of the tissue lining the lung and the chest cavity.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Parapneumonic pleural effusion

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000139.htm

# Parapneumonic pleural effusion

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pleural effusion is a buildup of fluid in the pleural space. The pleural space
is the area between the layers of the tissue lining the lung and the chest
cavity.

With parapneumonic pleural effusion, the fluid buildup is caused by pneumonia.

## Causes

Pneumonia, most commonly from bacteria, causes parapneumonic pleural effusion.

## Symptoms

Symptoms can include any of the following:

    * Chest pain, usually a sharp pain that is worse with cough or deep breaths
    * Cough with sputum
    * Fever
    * Rapid breathing
    * Shortness of breath

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will examine you and ask about your symptoms. The
provider will also listen to your lungs with a stethoscope and tap (percuss)
your chest and upper back.

The following tests may help to confirm a diagnosis:

    * Complete blood count (CBC) blood test
    * Chest CT scan
    * Chest x-ray
    * Thoracentesis (a sample of fluid is removed with a needle inserted between the ribs)
    * Ultrasound of the chest and heart

## Treatment

Antibiotics are prescribed to treat the pneumonia.

If the person has shortness of breath, thoracentesis might be used to drain
the fluid. If better drainage of the fluid is needed due to more severe
infection, a drain tube can be inserted.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

This condition improves when the pneumonia improves.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Lung damage
    * Infection that turns into an abscess, called an empyema, which will need to be drained with a chest tube
    * Collapsed lung (pneumothorax) after thoracentesis
    * Scarring of the pleural space (lining of the lung) 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of pleural effusion.

Call your provider or go to the emergency room if shortness of breath or
difficulty breathing occurs right after thoracentesis.

## Alternative Names

Pleural effusion - pneumonia

## Images

    * ![Respiratory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9248t.jpg)Respiratory system

## References

Blok BK. Thoracentesis. In: Roberts JR, Custalow CB, Thomsen TW, eds. _Roberts
and Hedges' Clinical Procedures in Emergency Medicine and Acute Care_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 9.

Broaddus VC, Light RW. Pleural effusion. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD,
et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 79.

Reed JC. Pleural effusions. In: Reed JC, ed. _Chest Radiology: Patterns and
Differential Diagnoses_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 4.

## Review Date 7/28/2018

Updated by: Denis Hadjiliadis, MD, MHS, Paul F. Harron, Jr. Associate
Professor of Medicine, Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care, Perelman School
of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pneumonia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pneumonia_thumb.jpg)Pneumonia
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

