Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000146.htm    
                                Description: Hospital-acquired pneumonia is an infection of the lungs that occurs during a hospital stay. This type of pneumonia can be very severe. Sometimes, it can be fatal.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hospital-acquired pneumonia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000146.htm

# Hospital-acquired pneumonia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hospital-acquired pneumonia is an infection of the lungs that occurs during a
hospital stay. This type of pneumonia can be very severe. Sometimes, it can be
fatal.

## Causes

Pneumonia is a common illness. It is caused by many different germs. Pneumonia
that starts in the hospital tends to be more serious than other lung
infections because:

    * People in the hospital are often very sick and cannot fight off germs.
    * The types of germs present in a hospital are often more dangerous and more resistant to treatment than those outside in the community. 

Pneumonia occurs more often in people who are using a respirator, which is a
machine that helps them breathe.

Hospital-acquired pneumonia can also be spread by health care workers, who can
pass germs from their hands, clothes, or instruments from one person to
another. This is why hand-washing, wearing gowns, and using other safety
measures is so important in the hospital.

People can be more likely to get pneumonia while in the hospital if they:

    * Abuse alcohol
    * Have had chest surgery or other major surgery
    * Have a weak immune system from cancer treatment, certain medicines, or severe wounds
    * Have long-term (chronic) lung disease
    * Breathe saliva or food into their lungs as a result of not being fully alert or having swallowing problems (for example, after a stroke)
    * Are not mentally alert due to medicines or illness
    * Are older 
    * Are on a breathing machine

## Symptoms

In older adults, the first sign of hospital-acquired pneumonia may be mental
changes or confusion.

Other symptoms may include:

    * A cough with greenish or pus-like phlegm (sputum)
    * Fever and chills
    * General discomfort, uneasiness, or ill feeling (malaise)
    * Loss of appetite
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Sharp chest pain that gets worse with deep breathing or coughing
    * Shortness of breath
    * Decreased blood pressure and fast heart rate

## Exams and Tests

If the health care provider suspects pneumonia, tests will be ordered. These
may include:

    * Arterial blood gases, to measure oxygen levels in the blood
    * Blood cultures, to see if the infection has spread to the blood
    * Chest x-ray or CT scan, to check the lungs
    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * Pulse oximetry, to measure oxygen levels in the blood
    * Sputum culture or sputum gram stain, to check what germs are causing the pneumonia 

## Treatment

Treatments may include:

    * Antibiotics through your veins (IV) to treat the lung infection. The antibiotic you are given will fight the germs that are found in your sputum culture or are suspected to be causing the infection.
    * Oxygen to help you breathe better and lung treatments to loosen and remove thick mucus from your lungs.
    * Ventilator (breathing machine) using a tube or a mask to support your breathing.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

People who have other serious illnesses do not recover as well from pneumonia
as people who are not as sick.

Hospital-acquired pneumonia can be a life-threatening illness. Long-term lung
damage may occur.

## Prevention

People visiting loved ones in the hospital need to take steps to prevent
spreading germs. The best way to stop the spread of germs is to wash your
hands often. Stay home if you are sick. Keep your immunizations up to date.

After any surgery, you will be asked to take deep breaths and move around as
soon as possible to help keep your lungs open. Follow the advice of your
provider to help prevent pneumonia.

Most hospitals have programs to prevent hospital-acquired infections.

## Alternative Names

Nosocomial pneumonia; Ventilator-associated pneumonia; Health-care associated
pneumonia; HCAP

## Patient Instructions

    * Pneumonia in adults - discharge

## Images

    * ![Hospital-acquired pneumonia](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17276t.jpg)Hospital-acquired pneumonia
    * ![Respiratory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9248t.jpg)Respiratory system

## References

Chastre J, Luyt C-E. Ventilator-associated pneumonia. In: Broaddus VC, Mason
RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory
Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 34.

Kalil AC, Metersky ML, Klompas M, et al. Management of adults with hospital-
acquired and ventilator-associated pneumonia: 2016 clinical practice
guidelines by the Infectious Diseases Society of America and the American
Thoracic Society. _Clin Infect Dis_. 2016;63(5):e61-e111. PMID: 27418577
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27418577.

Klompas M. Nosocomial pneumonia. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds.
_Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 301.

## Review Date 7/23/2019

Updated by: Denis Hadjiliadis, MD, MHS, Paul F. Harron, Jr. Associate
Professor of Medicine, Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care, Perelman School
of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pneumonia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pneumonia_thumb.jpg)Pneumonia
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

