Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000079.htm    
                                Description: Pneumonia is inflamed or swollen lung tissue due to infection with a germ.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Atypical pneumonia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000079.htm

# Atypical pneumonia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pneumonia is inflamed or swollen lung tissue due to infection with a germ.

With atypical pneumonia, the infection is caused by different bacteria than
the more common ones that cause pneumonia. Atypical pneumonia also tends to
have milder symptoms than typical pneumonia.

## Causes

Bacteria that cause atypical pneumonia include:

    * Mycoplasma pneumonia is caused by the bacteria _Mycoplasma pneumoniae_. It often affects people younger than age 40.
    * Pneumonia due to _Chlamydophila pneumoniae_ bacteria occurs year round.
    * Pneumonia due to _LegionellaÂ pneumophila_ bacteriaÂ is seen more often in middle-aged and older adults, smokers, and those with chronic illnesses or a weak immune system. It can be more severe. This type of pneumonia is also called Legionnaire disease.

## Symptoms

Pneumonia due to mycoplasma and chlamydophila bacteria is usually mild.
Pneumonia due to legionella gets worse during the first 4 to 6 days, and then
improves over 4 to 5 days.

The most common symptoms of pneumonia are:

    * Chills
    * Cough (with legionella pneumonia, you may cough up bloody mucus)
    * Fever, which may be mild or high
    * Shortness of breath (may only occur when you exert yourself)

Other symptoms include:

    * Chest pain that gets worse when you breathe deeply or cough
    * Confusion, most often in older people or those with legionella pneumonia
    * Headache
    * Loss of appetite, low energy, and fatigue
    * Muscle aches and joint stiffness
    * Sweating and clammy skin

Less common symptoms include:

    * Diarrhea (often with legionella pneumonia)
    * Ear pain (with mycoplasma pneumonia)
    * Eye pain or soreness (with mycoplasma pneumonia)
    * Neck lump (with mycoplasma pneumonia)
    * Rash (with mycoplasma pneumonia)
    * Sore throat (with mycoplasma pneumonia)Â 

## Exams and Tests

People with suspected pneumonia should have a complete medical evaluation. It
may be hard for your health care provider to tell whether you have pneumonia,
bronchitis, or another respiratory infection,Â so you may need a chest x-ray.

Depending on how severe the symptoms are, other tests may be done, including:

    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * Blood tests to identify the specific bacteria
    * Bronchoscopy (rarely needed)
    * CT scan of the chest
    * Measuring levels of oxygen and carbon dioxide in the blood (arterial blood gases)
    * Nose or throat swab to check for bacteria
    * Blood cultures
    * Open lung biopsy (only done in very serious illnesses when the diagnosis cannot be made from other sources)
    * Sputum culture identify the specific bacteria
    * Urine test to check for legionella bacteria 

## Treatment

To feel better, you can take these self-care measures at home:

    * Control your fever with aspirin, NSAIDs (such as ibuprofen or naproxen), or acetaminophen. DO NOT give aspirin to children because it may cause a dangerous illness called Reye syndrome.
    * DO NOT take cough medicines without first talking to your provider. Cough medicines may make it harder for your body to cough up the extra sputum.
    * Drink plenty of fluids to help loosen secretions and bring up phlegm.
    * Get a lot of rest. Have someone else do household chores. 

If needed, you will be prescribed antibiotics.

    * You may be able to take antibiotics by mouth at home.
    * If your condition is severe, you will likely be admitted to a hospital. There, you will be given antibiotics through a vein (intravenously), as well as oxygen.
    * Antibiotics might be used for 2 weeks or more.
    * Finish all the antibiotics you've been prescribed, even if you feel better. If you stop the medicine too soon, the pneumonia can return and may be harder to treat. 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most people with pneumonia due to mycoplasma or chlamydophila get better with
the right antibiotics. Legionella pneumonia can be severe. It can lead to
problems, most often in those with kidney failure, diabetes, chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), or a weakened immune system. It can also
lead to death.

## Possible Complications

Complications that may result include any of the following:

    * Brain and nervous system infections, such as meningitis, myelitis, and encephalitis
    * Hemolytic anemia, a condition in which there are not enough red blood cells in the blood because the body is destroying them
    * Severe lung damage
    * Respiratory failure requiring breathing machine support (ventilator)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your provider if you develop fever, cough, or shortness of breath.
There are many causes for these symptoms. The provider will need to rule out
pneumonia.

Also, call if you have been diagnosed with this type of pneumonia and your
symptoms become worse after improving first.

## Prevention

Wash your hands often and have other people around you do the same.

If your immune system is weak, stay away from crowds. Ask visitors who have a
cold to wear a mask.

DO NOT smoke. If you do, get help to quit.

Get a flu shot every year. Ask your provider if you need a pneumonia vaccine.

## Alternative Names

Walking pneumonia; Community-acquired pneumonia - atypical

## Patient Instructions

    * Pneumonia in adults - discharge
    * Pneumonia in children - discharge

## Images

    * ![Lungs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1103t.jpg)Lungs
    * ![Respiratory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9248t.jpg)Respiratory system

## References

Baum SG. Mycoplasma infections. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 317.

Holzman RS, Simberkoff MS. _Mycoplasma pneumoniae_ and atypical pneumonia. In:
Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's
Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 185.

Moran GJ, Waxman MA. Pneumonia. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M,
eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice._ 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 66.

## Review Date 7/28/2018

Updated by: Denis Hadjiliadis, MD, MHS, Paul F. Harron, Jr. Associate
Professor of Medicine, Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care, Perelman School
of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pneumonia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pneumonia_thumb.jpg)Pneumonia
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

