Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000664.htm    
                                Description: Cytomegalovirus (CMV) pneumonia is an infection of the lungs that can occur in people who have a suppressed immune system.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

CMV pneumonia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000664.htm

# CMV pneumonia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cytomegalovirus (CMV) pneumonia is an infection of the lungs that can occur in
people who have a suppressed immune system.

## Causes

CMV pneumonia is caused by a member of a group of herpes-type viruses.
Infection with CMV is very common. Most people are exposed to CMV in their
lifetime, but typically only those with weakened immune systems become ill
from CMV infection.

Serious CMV infections can occur in people with weakened immune systems as a
result of:

    * HIV/AIDS
    * Bone marrow transplant
    * Chemotherapy or other treatments that suppress the immune system 
    * Organ transplant

In people who have had organ and bone marrow transplants, the risk for
infection is greatest 5 to 13 weeks after the transplant.

## Symptoms

In otherwise healthy people, CMV usually produces no symptoms, or it produces
a temporary mononucleosis-type illness. However, those with a weakened immune
system can develop serious symptoms. Symptoms may include:

    * Cough
    * Fatigue
    * Fever
    * General discomfort, uneasiness, or ill feeling (malaise)
    * Loss of appetite
    * Muscle aches or joint pains
    * Shortness of breath
    * Sweating, excessive (night sweats) 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. In addition, the
following tests may be done:

    * Arterial blood gas
    * Blood culture
    * Blood tests to detect and measure substances specific to CMV infection
    * BronchoscopyÂ (may includeÂ biopsy)
    * Chest x-ray
    * CT scan of chest
    * Urine culture (clean catch)
    * Sputum gram stain and culture

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to use antiviral drugs to stop the virus from copying
itself in the body. Some people with CMV pneumonia need IV (intravenous)
medicines. Some people may need oxygen therapy and breathing support with a
ventilator to maintain oxygen until the infection is brought under control.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Antiviral drugs stop the virus from copying itself, but do not destroy it. The
CMV suppresses the immune system, and may increase your risk for other
infections.

Low oxygen level in the blood of people with CMV pneumonia often predicts
death, especially in those who need to be placed on a breathing machine.

## Possible Complications

Complications of CMV infection in people with HIV/AIDS include spread of
disease to other parts of the body, such as the esophagus, intestine, or eye.

Complications of CMV pneumonia include:

    * Kidney impairment (from drugs used to treat the condition)
    * Low white blood cell count (from drugs used to treat the condition)
    * Overwhelming infection that doesn't respond to treatment
    * Resistance of CMV to standard treatment

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of CMV pneumonia.

## Prevention

The following have been shown to help prevent CMV pneumonia in certain people:

    * Using organ transplant donors who don't have CMV
    * Using CMV-negative blood products for transfusion
    * Using CMV-immune globulin in certain people

Preventing HIV/AIDS avoids certain other diseases, including CMV, that can
occur in people who have a weakened immune system.

## Alternative Names

Pneumonia - cytomegalovirus; Cytomegalovirus pneumonia; Viral pneumonia

## Patient Instructions

    * Pneumonia in adults - discharge

## Images

    * ![CMV pneumonia](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17117t.jpg)CMV pneumonia
    * ![CMV \(cytomegalovirus\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17110t.jpg)CMV (cytomegalovirus)

## References

Crothers K, Morris A, Huang L. Pulmonary complications of HIV infection. In:
Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of
Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap
90.

Crumpacker CS. Cytomegalovirus (CMV). In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds.
_Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 140.

Madtes DK. Pulmonary complications of stem cell and solid organ
transplantation. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and
Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 91.

## Review Date 12/13/2017

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cytomegalovirus
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CytomegalovirusInfections_thumb.jpg)Cytomegalovirus
Infections _Read more_

![Pneumonia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pneumonia_thumb.jpg)Pneumonia
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

