Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000011.htm    
                                Description: Your child has pneumonia, which is an infection in the lungs. Now that your child is going home, follow the health care provider    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pneumonia in children - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000011.htm

# Pneumonia in children - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Your child has pneumonia, which is an infection in the lungs. Now that your
child is going home, follow the health care provider's instructions on helping
your child continue healing at home. Use the information below as a reminder.

## When You're in the Hospital

In the hospital, the providers helped your child breathe better. They also
gave your child medicine to help get rid of the germs that cause pneumonia.
They also made sure your child got enough liquids.

## What to Expect at Home

Your child will probably still have some symptoms of pneumonia after leaving
the hospital.

    * Coughing will slowly get better over 7 to 14 days.
    * Sleeping and eating may take up to a week to return to normal.
    * You may need to take time off work to care for your child. 

## Home Care

Breathing warm, moist (wet) air helps loosen the sticky mucus that may be
choking your child. Other things that may help include:

    * Placing a warm, wet washcloth loosely over your child's nose and mouth
    * Filling a humidifier with warm water and having your child breathe in the warm mist 

DO NOT use steam vaporizers because they can cause burns.

To bring up mucus from the lungs, tap your child's chest gently a few times a
day. This can be done as your child is lying down.

Make sure everyone washes their hands with warm water and soap or an alcohol-
based hand cleanser before they touch your child. Try to keep other children
away from your child.

DO NOT allow anyone to smoke in the house, the car, or anywhere near your
child.

Ask your child's provider about vaccines to prevent other infections, such as:

    * Flu vaccine
    * Pneumonia vaccine

Also, make sure all your child's vaccines are up to date.

## Eating and Drinking

Make sure your child drinks enough.

    * Offer breast milk or formula if your child is younger than 12 months.
    * Offer whole milk if your child is older than 12 months. 

Some drinks may help relax the airway and loosen the mucus, such as:

    * Warm tea
    * Lemonade
    * Apple juice
    * Chicken broth for children over age 1 

Eating or drinking may make your child tired. Offer small amounts, but more
often than usual.

If your child throws up because of coughing, wait a few minutes and try to
feed your child again.

## Medicines

Antibiotics help most children with pneumonia get better.

    * Your doctor may tell you to give antibiotics to your child.
    * DO NOT miss any doses.
    * Have your child finish all the antibiotics, even if your child starts to feel better. 

DO NOT give your child cough or cold medicines unless your doctor says it is
OK. Your child's coughing helps get rid of mucus from the lungs.

Your provider will tell you if it is OK to use acetaminophen (Tylenol) or
ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) for fever or pain. If these medicines are OK to use,
your provider will tell you how often to give them to your child.Â Do not give
aspirin to your child.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your child's provider if your child has any of the following:

    * Hard time breathing
    * Chest muscles are pulling in with each breath
    * Breathing faster than 50 to 60 breaths per minute (when not crying)
    * Making a grunting noise
    * Sitting with shoulders hunched over
    * Skin, nails, gums, or lips are a blue or gray color
    * The area around your child's eyes is a blue or gray color
    * Very tired or fatigued
    * Not moving around much
    * Has a limp or floppy body
    * Nostrils are flaring out when breathing
    * Does not feel like eating or drinking
    * Irritable
    * Has trouble sleeping 

## Alternative Names

Lung infection - children discharge; Bronchopneumonia - children discharge

## References

Kelly MS, Sandora TJ. Community-acquired pneumonia. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton
BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 400.

Shah SS, Bradley JS. Pediatric community-acquired pneumonia. In: Cherry JD,
Harrison GJ, Kaplan SL, Steinbach WJ, Hotez PJ, eds. _Feigin and Cherry's
Textbook of Pediatric Infectious Diseases_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2019:chap 22.

## Read More

    * Atypical pneumonia
    * Community-acquired pneumonia in adults
    * Flu
    * Viral pneumonia

## Patient Instructions

    * Oxygen safety
    * Pneumonia in adults - discharge
    * Traveling with breathing problems
    * Using oxygen at home
    * Using oxygen at home - what to ask your doctor 

## Review Date 2/24/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Pneumonia

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

