Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003788.htm    
                                Description: A chest CT (computed tomography) scan is an imaging method that uses x-rays to create cross-sectional pictures of the chest and upper abdomen.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Chest CT

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003788.htm

# Chest CT

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A chest CT (computed tomography) scan is an imaging method that uses x-rays to
create cross-sectional pictures of the chest and upper abdomen.

## How the Test is Performed

The test is done in the following way:

    * You'll likely be asked to change into a hospital gown.
    * You lie on a narrow table that slides into the center of the scanner. Once you are inside the scanner, the machine's x-ray beam rotates around you.
    * You must be still during the exam, because movement causes blurred images. You may be told to hold your breath for short period of time. 

The complete scan takes 30 seconds to a few minutes.

Certain CT scans require a special dye, called contrast, to be delivered into
the body before the test starts. Contrast highlights specific areas inside the
body and creates a clearer image. If your provider requests a CT scan with
intravenous contrast, you will be given it through a vein (IV) in your arm or
hand. A blood test to measure your kidney function may be done before the
test. This test is to make sure your kidneys are healthy enough to filter the
contrast.

You may be given medicine to help you relax during the test.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Some people have allergies to IV contrast and may need to take medicine before
their test to safely receive this substance.

Contrast can be given in several ways, depending on the type of CT being
performed.

    * It may be delivered through a vein (IV) in your hand or forearm.
    * It may be given through the rectum using an enema.
    * You might drink the contrast before your scan. When you actually drink the contrast depends on the type of exam being done. The contrast liquid may taste chalky, although some are flavored to make them taste a little better. The contrast eventually passes out of your body through your stool.

If contrast is used, you may also be asked not to eat or drink anything for 4
to 6 hours before the test.

If you weigh more than 300 pounds (135 kilograms), have your health care
provider contact the scanner operator before the exam. CT scanners have an
upper weight limit of 300 to 400 pounds (100 to 200 kilograms). Newer scanners
can accommodate up to 600 pounds (270 kilograms). Because it is hard for
x-rays to pass through metal, you will be asked to remove jewelry.

## How the Test will Feel

Some people may have discomfort from lying on the hard table.

Contrast given through an IV may cause a slight burning sensation, a metallic
taste in the mouth, and a warm flushing of the body. These sensations are
normal and usually go away within a few seconds.

There is no recovery time, unless you were given medicine to relax. After a CT
scan, you can go back to your normal diet, activity, and medicines.

## Why the Test is Performed

CT quickly creates detailed pictures of the body. The test may be used to get
a better view of the structures inside the chest.Â A CT scan is one of the
best ways of looking at soft tissues such as the heart and lungs.

A chest CT may be done:

    * After a chest injury
    * When a tumor or mass (clump of cells) is suspected, including a solitary pulmonary nodule seen on a chest x-ray
    * To determine the size, shape, and position of organs in the chest and upper abdomen
    * To look for bleeding or fluid collections in the lungs or other areas
    * To look for infection or inflammation in the chest
    * To look for blood clots in the lungs
    * To look for scarring in the lungs  

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Thoracic CT may show many disorders of the heart, lungs, or chest area,
including:

    * Â A tear in the wall, an abnormal widening or ballooning, or narrowing of the major artery carrying blood out of the heart (aorta)
    * Other abnormal changes of the major blood vessels in the lungs or chest
    * Buildup of blood or fluid around the heartÂ 
    * Lung cancer or cancer that has spread to the lungs from elsewhere in the body
    * Collection of fluid around the lungs (pleural effusion)
    * Damage to, and widening of the large airways of the lungs (bronchiectasis)
    * Enlarged lymph nodesÂ 
    * Lung disorders in which the lung tissues become inflamed and then damaged.
    * Pneumonia
    * Esophageal cancer
    * Lymphoma in the chest
    * Tumors, nodules, or cysts in the chest

## Risks

CT scans and other x-rays are strictly monitored and controlled to make sure
they use the least amount of radiation. CT scans use low levels of ionizing
radiation, which has the potential to cause cancer and other defects. However,
the risk from any one scan is small. The risk increases as many more studies
are done.

In some cases, a CT scan may still be done if the benefits greatly outweigh
the risks. For example, it can be more risky to not have the exam if your
provider thinks you might have cancer.

The most common type of contrast given into a vein contains iodine. If a
person with an iodine allergy is given this type of contrast, nausea,
sneezing, vomiting, itching, or hives may occur. In rare cases, the dye can
cause a life-threatening allergic response called anaphylaxis. If you have any
trouble breathing during the test, you should notify the scanner operator
immediately. Scanners come with an intercom and speakers, so the operator can
hear you at all times.

In people with kidney problems, the dye may have harmful effects on the
kidneys. In these situations, special steps may be taken to make the contrast
dye safer to use.

## Alternative Names

Thoracic CT; CT scan - lungs; CT scan - chest

## Images

    * ![CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1088t.jpg)CT scan
    * ![Thyroid cancer - CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1204t.jpg)Thyroid cancer - CT scan
    * ![Pulmonary nodule, solitary - CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1611t.jpg)Pulmonary nodule, solitary - CT scan
    * ![Lung mass, right upper lobe - CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1625t.jpg)Lung mass, right upper lobe - CT scan
    * ![Bronchial cancer - CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1627t.jpg)Bronchial cancer - CT scan
    * ![Lung mass, right lung - CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1631t.jpg)Lung mass, right lung - CT scan
    * ![Lung nodule, right lower lung - CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1634t.jpg)Lung nodule, right lower lung - CT scan
    * ![Lung with squamous cell cancer - CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1637t.jpg)Lung with squamous cell cancer - CT scan
    * ![Vertebra, thoracic \(mid back\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1774t.jpg)Vertebra, thoracic (mid back)
    * ![Normal lung anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9590t.jpg)Normal lung anatomy
    * ![Thoracic organs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8964t.jpg)Thoracic organs

## References

Shaqdan KW, Otrakji A, Sahani D. Safe use of contrast media. In: Abujudeh HH,
Bruno MA, eds. _Radiology Noninterpretive Skills: The Requisites_.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 20.

Shaw AS, Prokop M. Computed tomography. In: Adam A, Dixon AK, Gillard JH,
Schaefer-Prokop CM, eds. _Grainger & Allison's Diagnostic Radiology: A
Textbook of Medical Imaging_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill
Livingstone; 2015:chap 4.

## Review Date 7/20/2018

Updated by: Allen J. Blaivas, DO, Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care, and
Sleep Medicine, VA New Jersey Health Care System, Clinical Assistant
Professor, Rutgers New Jersey Medical School, East Orange, NJ. Review provided
by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Breathing_thumb.jpg)Breathing Problems
_Read more_

![CT Scans](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CTScan_thumb.jpg)CT Scans _Read
more_

![Chest Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChestInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Chest
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

