Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003723.htm    
                                Description: Routine sputum culture is a laboratory test that looks for germs that cause infection. Sputum is the material that comes up from air passages when you cough deeply.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Routine sputum culture

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003723.htm

# Routine sputum culture

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Routine sputum culture is a laboratory test that looks for germs that cause
infection. Sputum is the material that comes up from air passages when you
cough deeply.

## How the Test is Performed

A sputum sample is needed. You will be asked to cough deeply and spit any
phlegm that comes up from your lungs into a special container. The sample is
sent to a lab. There, it is placed in a special dish (culture). It is then
watched to see if bacteria or other disease-causing germs grow.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Drinking a lot of water and other fluids the night before the test may make it
easier to cough up the sputum.

## How the Test will Feel

You will need to cough. Sometimes the health care provider will tap on your
chest to loosen deep sputum. Or, you may be asked to inhale a steam-like mist
to help you cough up the sputum. You may have some discomfort from having to
cough deeply.

## Why the Test is Performed

The test helps identify the bacteria or other type of germs that are causing
an infection in the lungs or airways (bronchi).

## Normal Results

In a normal sputum sample there will be no disease-causing germs.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

If the sputum sample is abnormal, the results are called "positive."
Identifying the bacteria, fungus, or virus may help diagnose the cause of:

    * Bronchitis (swelling and inflammation in the main passages that carry air to the lungs)
    * Lung abscess (collection of pus in the lung)
    * Pneumonia
    * Tuberculosis
    * Flare up of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) or cystic fibrosis
    * Sarcoidosis

## Risks

There are no risks with this test.

## Alternative Names

Sputum culture

## Images

    * ![Sputum test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9945t.jpg)Sputum test

## References

Brainard J. Respiratory cytology. In: Zander DS, Farver CF, eds. _Pulmonary
Pathology_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 36.

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Culture, routine. In: Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds.
_Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier
Saunders; 2013:409-411.

Ellison RT, Donowitz GR. Acute pneumonia. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ,
eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 69.

## Review Date 11/20/2017

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Acute
Bronchitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AcuteBronchitis_thumb.jpg)Acute
Bronchitis _Read more_

![Pneumonia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pneumonia_thumb.jpg)Pneumonia
_Read more_

![Tuberculosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Tuberculosis_thumb.jpg)Tuberculosis
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

