Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000017.htm    
                                Description: You have pneumonia, which is an infection in your lungs. Now that you are going home, follow the health care provider    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pneumonia in adults - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000017.htm

# Pneumonia in adults - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You have pneumonia, which is an infection in your lungs. Now that you are
going home, follow the health care provider's instructions on taking care of
yourself at home. Use the information below as a reminder.

## When You're in the Hospital

In the hospital, your providers helped you breathe better. They also gave you
medicine to help your body get rid of the germs that cause pneumonia. They
also made sure you got enough liquids and nutrients.

## What to Expect at Home

You will still have symptoms of pneumonia after you leave the hospital.

    * Your cough will slowly get better over 7 to 14 days.
    * Sleeping and eating may take up to a week to return to normal.
    * Your energy level may take 2 weeks or more to return to normal. 

You will need to take time off work. For a while, you might not be able to do
other things that you are used to doing.

## Self-care

Breathing warm, moist air helps loosen the sticky mucus that may make you feel
like you are choking. Other things that may also help include:

    * Placing a warm, wet washcloth loosely over your nose and mouth.
    * Filling a humidifier with warm water and breathing in the warm mist. 

Coughing helps clear your airways. Take a couple of deep breaths, 2 to 3 times
every hour. Deep breaths help open up your lungs.

While lying down, tap your chest gently a few times a day. This helps bring up
mucus from the lungs.

If you smoke, now is the time to quit. DO NOT allow smoking in your home.

Drink plenty of liquids, as long as your provider says it is OK.

    * Drink water, juice, or weak tea.
    * Drink at least 6 to 10 cups (1.5 to 2.5 liters) a day.
    * DO NOT drink alcohol. 

Get plenty of rest when you go home. If you have trouble sleeping at night,
take naps during the day.

## Medicines

Your provider may prescribe antibiotics for you. These are medicines that kill
the germs that cause pneumonia. Antibiotics help most people with pneumonia
get better. DO NOT miss any doses. Take the medicine until it is gone, even if
you start to feel better.

DO NOT take cough or cold medicines unless your doctor says it is OK. Coughing
helps your body get rid of mucus from your lungs.

Your provider will tell you if it is OK to use acetaminophen (Tylenol) or
ibuprofen (Advil or Motrin) for fever or pain. If these medicines are OK to
use, your provider will tell you how much to take and how often to take them.

## Avoid Infections

To prevent pneumonia in the future:

    * Get a flu shot every year.
    * Ask your provider if you need to get the pneumonia vaccine.
    * Wash your hands often.
    * Stay away from crowds.
    * Ask visitors who have a cold to wear a mask. 

## Going Home With Oxygen

Your doctor may prescribe oxygen for you to use at home. Oxygen helps you
breathe better.

    * Never change how much oxygen is flowing without asking your doctor.
    * Always have a back-up supply of oxygen at home or with you when you go out.
    * Keep the phone number of your oxygen supplier with you at all times.
    * Learn how to use oxygen safely at home.
    * Never smoke near an oxygen tank. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if your breathing is:

    * Getting harder
    * Faster than before
    * Shallow and you cannot get a deep breath

Also call your provider if you have any of the following:

    * Need to lean forward when sitting to breathe more easily
    * Have chest pain when you take a deep breath
    * Headaches more often than usual
    * Feel sleepy or confused
    * Fever returns
    * Coughing up dark mucus or blood
    * Fingertips or the skin around your fingernails is blue

## Alternative Names

Bronchopneumonia adults - discharge; Lung infection adults - discharge

## References

Ellison RT, Donowitz GR. Acute pneumonia. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ,
eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 69.

Mandell LA. _Streptococcus pneumoniae_ infections. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI,
eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 289.

## Read More

    * Aspiration pneumonia
    * Atypical pneumonia
    * CMV pneumonia
    * Community-acquired pneumonia in adults
    * Flu
    * Hospital-acquired pneumonia
    * Legionnaire disease
    * Mycoplasma pneumonia
    * Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia
    * Tips on how to quit smoking
    * Viral pneumonia

## Patient Instructions

    * Oxygen safety
    * Pneumonia in children - discharge
    * Using oxygen at home
    * Using oxygen at home - what to ask your doctor 

## Review Date 2/24/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Pneumonia

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

