Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003860.htm    
                                Description: A lung needle biopsy is a method to remove a piece of lung tissue for examination. If it is done through the wall of your chest, it is called a transthoracic lung biopsy.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Lung needle biopsy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003860.htm

# Lung needle biopsy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A lung needle biopsy is a method to remove a piece of lung tissue for
examination. If it is done through the wall of your chest, it is called a
transthoracic lung biopsy.

## How the Test is Performed

The procedure usually takes 30 to 60 minutes. The biopsy is done in the
following way:

    * A chest x-ray or chest CT scan may be used to find the exact spot for the biopsy. If the biopsy is done using a CT scan, you may be lying down during the exam.
    * You may be given a sedative to relax you.
    * You sit with your arms resting forward on a table. Your skin where the biopsy needle is inserted is scrubbed.
    * A local painkilling medicine (anesthetic) is injected.
    * The doctor makes a small cut in your skin.
    * The biopsy needle is inserted into the abnormal tissue, tumor, or lung tissue. A small piece of tissue is removed with the needle.
    * The needle is removed. Pressure is placed on the site. Once bleeding has stopped, a bandage is applied.
    * A chest x-ray is taken right after the biopsy.
    * The biopsy sample is sent to the lab. Analysis usually takes a few days. 

## How to Prepare for the Test

You should not eat for 6 to 12 hours before the test. Follow instructions
about not taking nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as
aspirin, ibuprofen, or blood thinners such as warfarin for a period of time
before the procedure. Check with your health care provider before changing or
stopping any medicines.

Before a needle biopsy of the lung, a chest x-ray or chest CT scan may be
performed.

## How the Test will Feel

You will receive an injection of anesthetic before the biopsy. This injection
will sting for a moment. You will feel pressure and a brief, sharp pain when
the biopsy needle touches the lung.

## Why the Test is Performed

A lung needle biopsy isÂ done when there is an abnormal condition near the
surface of the lung, in the lung itself, or on the chest wall. Most often, it
is done to rule out cancer. The biopsy is usuallyÂ done after abnormalities
appear on a chest x-ray or CT scan.

## Normal Results

In a normal test, the tissues are normal and there is no cancer or growth of
bacteria, viruses, or fungi if a culture is performed.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An abnormal result may be due to any of the following:

    * Bacterial, viral, or fungal lung infection
    * Cancerous cells (lung cancer, mesothelioma)
    * Pneumonia

## Risks

Sometimes, a collapsed lung (pneumothorax) occurs after this test. A chest
x-ray will be done to check for this. The risk is higher if you have certain
lung diseases such as emphysema. Usually, a collapsed lung after a biopsy does
not need treatment. But if the pneumothorax is large or does not improve, a
chest tube is inserted to expand your lung.

In rare cases, pneumothorax can be life threatening if air escapes from the
lung, gets trapped in the chest, and presses on the rest of your lungs or
heart.

Whenever a biopsy is done, there is a risk of too much bleeding (hemorrhage).
Some bleeding is common, and a provider will monitor the amount of bleeding.
In rare cases, major and life-threatening bleeding can occur.

A needle biopsy should not be performed if other tests show that you have:

    * Bleeding disorder of any type
    * Bullae (enlarged alveoli that occur with emphysema)
    * Cor pulmonale (condition that causes the right side of the heart to fail)
    * Cysts of the lung
    * High blood pressure in the lung arteries
    * Severe hypoxia (low oxygen) 

## Considerations

Signs of a collapsed lung include:

    * Blueness of the skin
    * Chest pain
    * Rapid heart rate (rapid pulse)
    * Shortness of breath

If any of these occur, call your provider right away.

## Alternative Names

Transthoracic needle aspiration; Percutaneous needle aspiration

## Images

    * ![Lung biopsy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9761t.jpg)Lung biopsy
    * ![Lung tissue biopsy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9600t.jpg)Lung tissue biopsy

## References

Given MF, Corr A, Thomson KR, Lyon SM. Percutaneous biopsy of the lung,
mediastinum, and pleura. In: Mauro MA, Murphy KPJ, Thomson KR, Venbrux AC,
Morgan RA, eds. _Image-Guided Interventions_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 152.

Klein JS, Bhave AD. Thoracic radiology: invasive diagnostic imaging and image-
guided interventions. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray
and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 19.

## Review Date 7/20/2018

Updated by: Allen J. Blaivas, DO, Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care, and
Sleep Medicine, VA New Jersey Health Care System, Clinical Assistant
Professor, Rutgers New Jersey Medical School, East Orange, NJ. Review provided
by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Biopsy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Biopsy_thumb.jpg)Biopsy _Read more_

![Lung Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LungCancer_thumb.jpg)Lung Cancer
_Read more_

![Lung Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LungDiseases_thumb.jpg)Lung
Diseases _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

