Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003765.htm    
                                Description: A sputum Gram stain is a laboratory test used to detect bacteria in a sputum sample. Sputum is the material that comes up from your air passages when you cough very deeply.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Sputum Gram stain

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003765.htm

# Sputum Gram stain

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A sputum Gram stain is a laboratory test used to detect bacteria in a sputum
sample. Sputum is the material that comes up from your air passages when you
cough very deeply.

The Gram stain method is one of the most commonly used methods to rapidly
identify the cause of a bacterial infection, including pneumonia.

## How the Test is Performed

A sputum sample is needed.

    * You will be asked to cough deeply and spit any substance that comes up from your lungs (sputum) into a special container.
    * You may be asked to breathe in a mist of salty steam. This makes you cough more deeply and produce sputum.
    * If you still do not produce enough sputum, you might have a procedure called bronchoscopy.
    * To increase the accuracy, this test is sometimes done 3 times, often 3 days in a row.

The sample is sent to a lab. The lab team member places a very thin layer of
the sample onto a glass slide. This is called a smear. Stains are placed on
the sample. The lab team member looks at the stained slide under a microscope,
checking for bacteria and white blood cells. The color, size, and shape of the
cells help identify the bacteria.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Drinking fluids the night before the test helps your lungs produce phlegm. It
makes the test more accurate if it is done first thing in the morning.

If you are having a bronchoscopy, follow your provider's instructions on how
to prepare for the procedure.

## How the Test will Feel

There is no discomfort, unless a bronchoscopy needs to be performed.

## Why the Test is Performed

Your health care provider may order this test if you have a persistent or
prolonged cough, or if you are coughing up material that has a foul odor or
unusual color. The test may also be done if you have other signs and symptoms
of respiratory disease or infection.

## Normal Results

A normal result means that few to no white blood cells and no bacteria were
seen in the sample. The sputum is clear, thin, and odorless.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An abnormal result means that bacteria are seen in the test sample. You may
have a bacterial infection. A culture is needed to confirm the diagnosis.

## Risks

There are no risks, unless bronchoscopy is performed.

## Alternative Names

Gram stain of sputum

## Images

    * ![Sputum test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9945t.jpg)Sputum test

## References

Beavis KG, Charnot-Katsikas A. Specimen collection and handling for diagnosis
of infectious diseases. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical
Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 64.

Torres A, Menendez R, Wunderink RG. Bacterial pneumonia and lung abscess. In:
Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of
Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap
33.

## Review Date 12/1/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cough](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cough_thumb.jpg)Cough _Read more_

![Lung Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LungDiseases_thumb.jpg)Lung
Diseases _Read more_

![Infecciones por
neumococo](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PneumococcalInfections_thumb.jpg)Pneumococcal
Infections _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

