Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001295.htm    
                                Description: White blood cells fight infections from bacteria, viruses, fungi, and other germs. One important type of white blood cell is the granulocyte, which is made in the bone marrow and travels in the blood throughout    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Agranulocytosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001295.htm

# Agranulocytosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

White blood cells fight infections from bacteria, viruses, fungi, and other
germs. One important type of white blood cell is the granulocyte, which is
made in the bone marrow and travels in the blood throughout the body.
Granulocytes sense infections, gather at sites of infection, and destroy the
germs.

When the body has too few granulocytes, the condition is called
agranulocytosis. This makes it harder for the body to fight off germs. As a
result, the person is more likely to get sick from infections.

## Causes

Agranulocytosis may be caused by:

    * Autoimmune disorders
    * Bone marrow diseases, such as myelodysplasia or large granular lymphocyte (LGL) leukemia
    * Certain medicines used to treat diseases, including cancer
    * Certain street drugs
    * Poor nutrition
    * Preparation for bone marrow transplant
    * Problem with genes
    * Spleen enlargement

## Symptoms

Symptoms of this condition may include:

    * Fever
    * Chills
    * Malaise
    * General weakness
    * Sore throat
    * Mouth and throat ulcers
    * Bone pain
    * Pneumonia
    * Shock

## Exams and Tests

A blood differential test will be done to measure the percentage of each type
of white blood cell in your blood.

Other tests to diagnose the condition may include:

    * Bone marrow biopsy
    * Biopsy of mouth ulcer
    * Neutrophil antibody studies (blood test)

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the cause of the low white blood cell count. For example,
if a medicine is the cause, stopping or changing to another medicine may help.
In other cases, medicines to help the body make more white blood cells will be
used.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Treating or removing the cause often results in a good outcome.

## Prevention

If you are having treatment or taking medicine that could cause
agranulocytosis, your health care provider will use blood tests to monitor
you.

## Alternative Names

Granulocytopenia; Granulopenia

## Images

    * ![Blood cells](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9123t.jpg)Blood cells

## References

Cook JR. Bone marrow failure syndromes. In: Hsi ED, ed. _Hematopathology_. 3rd
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 5.

Klokkevold PR, Mealey BL. Influence of systemic conditions. In: Newman MG,
Takei HH, Klokkevold PR, Carranza FA, eds. _Carranza's Clinical
Periodontology_. 12th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 11.

Murphy MF, Pasi KJ, Mead A. Haematological disease. In: Kumar P, Clark M, eds.
_Kumar and Clarke's Clinical Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 16.

## Review Date 4/11/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Blood Disorders
_Read more_

![Bone Marrow
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BoneMarrowDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bone
Marrow Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

