Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003270.htm    
                                Description: Hemolytic crisis occurs when large numbers of red blood cells are destroyed over a short time. The loss of red blood cells occurs much faster than the body can produce new red blood cells.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hemolytic crisis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003270.htm

# Hemolytic crisis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hemolytic crisis occurs when large numbers of red blood cells are destroyed
over a short time. The loss of red blood cells occurs much faster than the
body can produce new red blood cells.

## Considerations

During a hemolytic crisis, the body cannot make enough red blood cells to
replace those that are destroyed. This causes acute and often severe anemia.

The part of red blood cells that carries oxygen (hemoglobin) is released into
the bloodstream. This can lead to kidney damage.

## Causes

Causes of hemolysis include:

    * A lack of certain proteins inside red blood cells
    * Autoimmune diseases
    * Certain infections
    * Defects in the hemoglobin molecules inside red blood cells
    * Defects of the proteins that make up the internal framework of red blood cells
    * Side effects of certain medicines
    * Reactions to blood transfusions 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have:

    * Symptoms of anemia, including pale skin or fatigue, especially if these symptoms get worse
    * Urine that is red, red-brown, or brown (tea-colored)

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Emergency treatment may be necessary. This may include a hospital stay,
oxygen, blood transfusions, and other treatments.

When your condition is stable, your provider will perform a physical
examination and ask about your medical history and symptoms. The physical exam
may show swelling of the spleen (splenomegaly).

Tests that may be done include:

    * Blood chemistry panel
    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * Coombs test
    * Haptoglobin
    * Hemoglobin -- blood
    * Hemoglobin -- urine
    * Kidney or abdominal CT scan
    * Kidney or abdominal ultrasound

Treatment depends on the cause of hemolysis.

## Alternative Names

Hemolysis - acute

## References

Gallagher PG. Hemolytic anemias: red blood cell membrane and metabolic
defects. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 161.

Little M. Haematology emergencies. In: Cameron P, Jelinek G, Kelly AM, Brown
A, Little M, eds. _Textbook of Adult Emergency Medicine_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2015:chap 13.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Anemia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Anemia_thumb.jpg)Anemia _Read more_

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Blood Disorders
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

