Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003643.htm    
                                Description: A WBC count is a blood test to measure the number of white blood cells (WBCs) in the blood.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

WBC count

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003643.htm

# WBC count

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A WBC count is a blood test to measure the number of white blood cells (WBCs)
in the blood.

WBCs are also called leukocytes. They help fight infections. There are five
major types of white blood cells:

    * Basophils
    * Eosinophils
    * Lymphocytes (T cells, B cells, and Natural Killer cells)
    * Monocytes
    * Neutrophils 

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Most of the time, you do not need to take special steps before this test. Tell
your health care provider the medicines you are taking, includingÂ the onesÂ
without a prescription. Some drugs may change the test results.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or slight bruising. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

You will have this test to find out how many WBCs you have. Your provider may
order this test to help diagnose conditions such as:

    * An infection
    * Allergic reaction
    * Inflammation
    * Blood cancer such as leukemia or lymphoma

## Normal Results

The normal number of WBCs in the blood is 4,500 to 11,000 WBCs per microliter
(4.5 to 11.0 Ã 109/L).

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different labs. Some labs use
different measurements or may test different specimens. Talk to your provider
about your test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

LOW WBC COUNT

A low number of WBCs is called leukopenia. A count less than 4,500 cells per
microliter (4.5 Ã 109/L) is below normal.

Neutrophils are one type of WBC. They are important for fighting infections.

A lower than normal WBC count may be due to:

    * Bone marrow deficiency or failure (for example, due to infection, tumor, or abnormal scarring)
    * Cancer treating drugs, or other medicines (see list below)
    * Certain autoimmune disorders such as lupus (SLE)
    * Disease of the liver or spleen
    * Radiation treatment for cancer
    * Certain viral illnesses, such as mononucleosis (mono)
    * Cancers that damage the bone marrow
    * Very severe bacterial infections
    * Severe emotional or physical stress (such as from an injury or surgery) 

HIGH WBC COUNT

A higher than normal WBC count is called leukocytosis. It may be due to:

    * Certain drugs or medicines (see list below)
    * Cigarette smoking
    * After spleen removal surgery
    * Infections, most often those caused by bacteria
    * Inflammatory disease (such as rheumatoid arthritis or allergy)
    * Leukemia or Hodgkin disease
    * Tissue damage (for example, burns) 

There may also be less common reasons for abnormal WBC counts.

Drugs that may lower your WBC count include:

    * Antibiotics
    * Anticonvulsants
    * Antithyroid drugs
    * Arsenicals
    * Captopril
    * Chemotherapy drugs
    * Chlorpromazine
    * Clozapine
    * Diuretics (water pills)
    * Histamine-2 blockers
    * Sulfonamides
    * Quinidine
    * Terbinafine
    * Ticlopidine 

Drugs that may increase WBC counts include:

    * Beta adrenergic agonists (for example, albuterol)
    * Corticosteroids
    * Epinephrine
    * Granulocyte colony stimulating factor
    * Heparin
    * Lithium 

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another, and from one side of the body to the
other. Obtaining a blood sample from some people may be more difficult than
from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

## Alternative Names

Leukocyte count; White blood cell count; White blood cell differential; WBC
differential; Infection - WBC count; Cancer - WBC count

## Images

    * ![Basophil \(close-up\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1442t.jpg)Basophil (close-up)
    * ![Formed elements of blood](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19192t.jpg)Formed elements of blood
    * ![White blood cell count - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/15216t.jpg)White blood cell count - series

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Differential leukocyte count (Diff) - peripheral
blood. In: Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic
Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:441-450.

Vajpayee N, Graham SS, Bem S. Basic examination of blood and bone marrow. In:
McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by
Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 30.

## Review Date 1/29/2019

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![A photo of purple topped vacutainer blood collection
tubes](https://medlineplus.gov/images/purple-topped-vacutainer-blood-
collection-tubes-contain-the-anticoagulant-359x544_thumb.jpg)Blood Count Tests
_Read more_

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Blood Disorders
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

