Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003403.htm    
                                Description: Cord blood refers to a sample of blood collected from the umbilical cord when a baby is born. The umbilical cord is the cord connecting the baby to the mother    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cord blood testing

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003403.htm

# Cord blood testing

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cord blood refers to a sample of blood collected from the umbilical cord when
a baby is born. The umbilical cord is the cord connecting the baby to the
mother's womb.

Cord blood testing can be done to evaluate a newborn's health.

## How the Test is Performed

Right after the birth of your baby, the umbilical cord is clamped and cut. If
cord blood is to be drawn, another clamp is placed 8 to 10 inches (20 to 25
centimeters) away from the first. The section between the clamps is cut and a
blood sample is collected into a specimen tube.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special steps are needed to prepare for this test.

## How the Test will Feel

You will not feel anything beyond the normal birthing process.

## Why the Test is Performed

Cord blood testing is done to measure the following in your baby's blood:

    * Bilirubin level
    * Blood culture (if an infection is suspected)
    * Blood gases (including oxygen, carbon dioxide, and pH levels)
    * Blood sugar level
    * Blood type and Rh
    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * Platelet count 

## Normal Results

Normal values mean that all items checked are within normal range.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A low pH (less than 7.04 to 7.10) means there are higher levels of acids in
the baby's blood. This might occur when the baby does not get enough oxygen
during labor. One reason for this could be that the umbilical cord was
compressed during labor or delivery.

A blood culture that is positive for bacteria means your baby has a blood
infection.

High level of blood sugar (glucose) in the cord blood may be found if the
mother has diabetes. The newborn will be watched for hypoglycemia (low blood
sugar) after delivery.

High level of bilirubin in the newborn has many causes, which could be due to
infections the baby gets.

Note: Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk
to your doctor about the meaning of your specific test results.

## Considerations

Most hospitals routinely collect cord blood for testing at birth. The process
is fairly easy and this is the only time when this type of blood sample can be
collected.

You can also decide to bank or donate cord blood at the time of your delivery.
Cord blood can be used to treat certain types of bone marrow-related cancers.
Some parents may choose to save (bank) their child's cord blood for this and
other future medical purposes.

Cord blood banking for personal use is done by both cord blood banks and
private companies. There is a charge for the service if you use a private
service. If you choose to bank your infant's cord blood, you should talk to
your health care provider about the pros and cons of different options.

## References

American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists. ACOG committee opinion
no. 648: umbilical cord blood banking. _Obstet Gynecol_.
2015;126(6):e127-e129. PMID: 26595583. www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26595583.

Greco NJ, Elkins M. Tissue banking and progenitor cells. In: McPherson RA,
Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory
Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 38.

Waldorf KMA. Maternal-fetal immunology. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR, Simpson JL,
et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 4.

## Review Date 4/19/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Blood _Read
more_

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Blood Disorders
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

