Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007230.htm    
                                Description: Neutropenia is an abnormally low number of white blood cells. These cells are called neutrophils. They help the body fight infection. This article discusses neutropenia in newborns.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Neutropenia - infants

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007230.htm

# Neutropenia - infants

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Neutropenia is an abnormally low number of white blood cells. These cells are
called neutrophils. They help the body fight infection. This article discusses
neutropenia in newborns.

## Causes

White blood cells are produced in the bone marrow. They are released into the
bloodstream and travel wherever they are needed. Low levels of neutrophils
occur when the bone marrow cannot replace them as fast as needed.

In babies, the most common cause is infection. A very severe infection may
cause neutrophils to be used up quickly. It may also prevent the bone marrow
from producing more neutrophils.

Sometimes, an infant who is not sick will have a low neutrophil count for no
obvious reason. Some disorders in the pregnant mother, such as preeclampsia,
can also lead to neutropenia in infants.

In rare cases, mothers may have antibodies against their baby's neutrophils.
These antibodies cross the placenta before birth and cause the baby's cells to
break down (alloimmune neutropenia). In other rare cases, a problem with the
baby's bone marrow may lead to decreased white blood cell production.

## Exams and Tests

A small sample of the baby's blood will be sent to the laboratory for a
complete blood count (CBC) and blood differential. A CBC reveals the number
and type of cells in the blood. The differential helps determine the number of
different types of white blood cells in a blood sample.

## Treatment

The source of any infection should be found and treated.

In many cases, neutropenia goes away on its own as the bone marrow recovers
and begins to produce enough white blood cells.

In rare cases when the neutrophil count is low enough to be life threatening,
the following treatments may be recommended:

    * Medicines to stimulate white blood cell production
    * Antibodies from donated blood samples (intravenous immune globulin) 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The baby's outlook depends on the cause of the neutropenia. Some infections
and other conditions in newborns can be life threatening. However, most
infections do not cause long-term side effects after the neutropenia goes away
or is treated.

Alloimmune neutropenia will also get better once the mother's antibodies are
out of the baby's bloodstream.

## Images

    * ![Neutrophil](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/21770t.jpg)Neutrophils

## References

Koenig JM, Bliss JM, Mariscalco MM. Normal and abnormal neutrophil physiology
in the newborn. In: Polin RA, Abman SH, Rowitch DH, Benitz WE, Fox WW, eds.
_Fetal and Neonatal Physiology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap
126.

Roberts IAG, Murray NA. Haematology. In: Rennie JM, ed. _Rennie and Roberton's
Textbook of Neonatology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill
Livingstone; 2012:chap 30.

Stoll BJ, Shane AL. Infections of the neonatal infant. In: Kliegman RM,
Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 109.

## Review Date 10/18/2017

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Blood Disorders
_Read more_

![Uncommon Infant and Newborn
Problems](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UncommonInfantandNewbornProblems_thumb.jpg)Uncommon
Infant and Newborn Problems _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

