Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001298.htm    
                                Description: Hemolytic disease of the newborn (HDN) is a blood disorder in a fetus or newborn infant. In some infants, it can be life threatening.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hemolytic disease of the newborn

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001298.htm

# Hemolytic disease of the newborn

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hemolytic disease of the newborn (HDN) is a blood disorder in a fetus or
newborn infant. In some infants, it can be life threatening.

Normally, red blood cells last for about 120 days in the body. In this
disorder, red blood cells in the blood are destroyed earlier than normal.

## Causes

During pregnancy, red blood cells from the unborn baby can cross into the
mother's blood through the placenta. HDN occurs when the immune system of the
mother sees a baby's red blood cells as foreign. Antibodies then develop
against the baby's red blood cells. These antibodies attack the red blood
cells in the baby's blood and cause them to break down too early.

HDN may develop when a mother and her unborn baby have different blood types.
The types are based on small substances (antigens) on the surface of the blood
cells.

There is more than one way in which the unborn baby's blood type may not match
the mother's.

    * A, B, AB, and O are the 4 major blood types. This is the most common form of a mismatch. In most cases, this is not very severe.
    * If the mother is Rh-negative and the baby in the womb has Rh-positive cells. When this form does occur, it can cause very severe anemia in the baby. It can be prevented in most cases.
    * There are other, much less common, types of mismatch between minor blood group antigens. These can also cause severe problems.

## Symptoms

HDN can destroy the newborn baby's blood cells very quickly, which can cause
symptoms such as:

    * Edema (swelling under the surface of the skin) 
    * Newborn jaundice which occurs sooner and is more severe than normal

## Exams and Tests

Signs of HDN include:

    * Anemia or low blood count
    * Enlarged liver or spleen
    * Hydrops (fluid throughout the body's tissues, including in the spaces containing the lungs, heart, and abdominal organs), which can lead to heart failure and/or respiratory failure from too much fluid 

Which tests are done depends on the type of blood group incompatibility and
the severity of symptoms, but may include:

    * Complete blood count and immature red blood cell (reticulocyte) count
    * Bilirubin level
    * Blood typing 

## Treatment

Infants with HDN may be treated with:

    * Feeding often and receiving extra fluids.
    * Light therapy (phototherapy) using special blue lights to convert bilirubin into a form in which the baby's body can get rid of it.
    * Antibodies (intravenous immunoglobulin, or IVIG) to help protect the baby's red cells from being destroyed.
    * Medicines to raise blood pressure if it drops too low.
    * In severe cases, an exchange transfusion may need to be performed. This involves removing a large amount of the baby's blood, and thus the extra bilirubin and antibodies. Fresh donor blood is infused.
    * Simple transfusion (without exchange). This may need to be repeated after the baby goes home from the hospital.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The severity of this condition can vary. Some babies have no symptoms. In
other cases, problems such as hydrops can cause the baby to die before, or
shortly after birth. Severe HDN may be treated before birth by intrauterine
blood transfusions.

## Prevention

The most severe form of this disease, which is caused by Rh incompatibility,
can be prevented if the mother is tested during pregnancy. If needed, she is
given a shot of a medicine called RhoGAM at certain times during and after her
pregnancy. If you have had a baby with this disease, talk with your health
care provider if you plan to have another baby.

## Alternative Names

Hemolytic disease of the fetus and newborn (HDFN); Erythroblastosis fetalis;
Anemia - HDN; Blood incompatibility - HDN; ABO incompatibility - HDN; Rh
incompatibility - HDN

## Images

    * ![Intrauterine transfusion](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17170t.jpg)Intrauterine transfusion
    * ![Antibodies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9069t.jpg)Antibodies

## References

Diab Y, Luchtman-Jones L. Hematologic and oncologic problems in the fetus and
neonate. In: Martin RJ, Fanaroff AA, Walsh MC, eds. _Fanaroff and Martin's
Neonatal-Perinatal Medicine: Diseases of the Fetus and Infant_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 88.

Josephson CD, Sloan SR. Pediatric transfusion medicine. In: Hoffman R, Benz
EJ, Silberstein LE, et al, eds. _Hematology: Basic Principles and Practice_.
7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 121.

Maheshwari A, Carlo WA. Blood disorders. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme
JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 103.

## Review Date 12/13/2017

Updated by: Kimberly G. Lee, MD, MSc, IBCLC, Associate Professor of
Pediatrics, Division of Neonatology, Medical University of South Carolina,
Charleston, SC. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Blood Disorders
_Read more_

![Incompatibilidad
Rh](https://medlineplus.gov/images/RhIncompatibility_thumb.jpg)Rh
Incompatibility _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

