Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003634.htm    
                                Description: The haptoglobin blood test measures the level of haptoglobin in your blood.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Haptoglobin blood test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003634.htm

# Haptoglobin blood test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The haptoglobin blood test measures the level of haptoglobin in your blood.

Haptoglobin is a protein produced by the liver. It attaches to a certain type
of hemoglobin in the blood. Hemoglobin is a blood cell protein that carries
oxygen.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Certain medicines may affect the results of this test. Your health care
provider will tell you if you need to stop taking any medicines. DO NOT stop
any medicine before talking to your provider.

Drugs that can raise haptoglobin levels include:

    * Androgens
    * Corticosteroids 

Drugs that can lower haptoglobin levels include:

    * Birth control pills
    * Chlorpromazine
    * Diphenhydramine
    * Indomethacin
    * Isoniazid
    * Nitrofurantoin
    * Quinidine
    * Streptomycin 

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or a slight bruise. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is done to see how fast your red blood cells are destroyed. It may
be done if your provider suspects you have a type of anemia that your immune
system is causing.

## Normal Results

The normal range is 41 to 165 milligrams per deciliter (mg/dL) or 410 to 1,650
milligrams per liter (mg/L).

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your provider
about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

When red blood cells are actively being destroyed, haptoglobin disappears
faster than it is created. As a result, the levels of haptoglobin in the blood
drop.

Lower than normal levels may be due to:

    * Immune hemolytic anemia
    * Long-term (chronic) liver disease
    * Blood buildup under the skin (hematoma)
    * Liver disease
    * Transfusion reaction 

Higher-than-normal levels may be due to:

    * Blockage of the bile ducts
    * Joint or muscle inflammation, swelling, and pain that comes on suddenly
    * Peptic ulcer
    * Ulcerative colitis
    * Other inflammatory conditions 

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another and from one side of the body to the
other. Taking blood from some people may be more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Haptoglobin (Hp) - serum. In: Chernecky CC, Berger
BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO:
Elsevier Saunders; 2013:604-605.

Michel M. Autoimmune and intravascular hemolytic anemias In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 160.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longsteet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Anemia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Anemia_thumb.jpg)Anemia _Read more_

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Blood Disorders
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

