Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000675.htm    
                                Description: White blood cells (WBCs) fight infections from bacteria, viruses, fungi, and other pathogens (organisms that cause infection). One important type of WBC is the neutrophil. These cells are made in the bone    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Low white blood cell count and cancer

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000675.htm

# Low white blood cell count and cancer

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

White blood cells (WBCs) fight infections from bacteria, viruses, fungi, and
other pathogens (organisms that cause infection). One important type of WBC is
the neutrophil. These cells are made in the bone marrow and travel in the
blood throughout the body. They sense infections, gather at sites of
infection, and destroy the pathogens.

When the body has too few neutrophils, the condition is called neutropenia.
This makes it harder for the body to fight off pathogens. As a result the
person is more likely to get sick from infections. In general, an adult who
has fewer than 1,000 neutrophils in a microliter of blood has neutropenia.

If the neutrophil count is very low, fewer than 500 neutrophils in a
microliter of blood, it is called severe neutropenia. When the neutrophil
count gets this low, even the bacteria normally living in a person's mouth,
skin, and gut can cause serious infections.

## Why It Occurs

A person with cancer can develop a low WBC count from the cancer or from
treatment for the cancer. Cancer may be in the bone marrow, causing fewer
neutrophils to be made. The WBC count can also go down when cancer is treated
with chemotherapy drugs, which slow bone marrow production of healthy WBCs.

## How Low Is Too Low?

When your blood is tested, ask for your WBC count and specifically, your
neutrophil count. If your counts are low, do what you can to prevent
infections. Know the signs of infection and what to do if you have them.

## What You Can Do to Prevent Infections

Prevent infections by taking the following measures:

    * Be careful with pets and other animals to avoid catching infections from them.
    * Practice safe eating and drinking habits.
    * Wash your hands often with soap and water.
    * Stay away from people who have symptoms of an infection.
    * Avoid travelling and crowded public places.

## When to Call the Doctor

If you have any of the following symptoms, call your health care provider:

    * Fevers, chills, or sweats. These may be signs of infection.
    * Diarrhea that does not go away or is bloody.
    * Severe nausea and vomiting.
    * Being unable to eat or drink.
    * Extreme weakness.
    * Redness, swelling, or drainage from any place where you have an IV line inserted into your body.
    * A new skin rash or blisters.
    * Pain in your stomach area.
    * A very bad headache or one that does not go away.
    * A cough that is getting worse.
    * Trouble breathing when you are at rest or when you are doing simple tasks.
    * Burning when you urinate. 

## Alternative Names

Neutropenia and cancer; Absolute neutrophil count and cancer; ANC and cancer

## References

American Cancer Society website. Infections in people with cancer.
www.cancer.org/treatment/treatments-and-side-effects/physical-side-
effects/infections/infections-in-people-with-cancer.html. Updated February 25,
2015. Accessed May 2, 2019.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Preventing infections in
cancer patients. www.cdc.gov/cancer/preventinfections/index.htm. Updated
November 28, 2018. Accessed May 2, 2019.

Freifeld AG, Kaul DR. Infection in the patient with cancer. In: Niederhuber
JE, Armitage JO, Kastan MB, Doroshow JH, Tepper JE, eds. _Abeloff's Clinical
Oncology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 34.

## Review Date 4/21/2019

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Blood Count Tests
    * Blood Disorders
    * Cancer Chemotherapy

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

