Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003646.htm    
                                Description: Hematocrit is a blood test that measures how much of a person    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hematocrit

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003646.htm

# Hematocrit

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hematocrit is a blood test that measures how much of a person's blood is made
up of red blood cells. This measurement depends on the number of and size of
the red blood cells.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is necessary for this test.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or a slight bruise. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

The hematocrit is almost always done as part of a complete blood count (CBC).

Your health care provider may recommend this test if you have signs of or are
at risk for anemia. These include having:

    * Grumpiness or tiredness
    * Headaches
    * Problems concentrating
    * Poor nutrition
    * Heavy menstrual periods
    * Blood in your stools, or vomit (if you throw up)
    * Treatment for cancer
    * Leukemia or other problems in the bone marrow
    * Chronic medical problems, such as kidney disease or certain types of arthritis 

## Normal Results

Normal results vary, but in general they are:

    * Male: 40.7% to 50.3%
    * Female: 36.1% to 44.3%

For babies, normal results are:

    * Newborn: 45% to 61%
    * Infant: 32% to 42%

The examples above are common measurements for results of these tests. Normal
value ranges vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs use
different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your provider about
the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Low hematocrit may be due to:

    * Anemia
    * Bleeding
    * Destruction of red blood cells
    * Leukemia
    * Malnutrition
    * Too little iron, folate, vitamin B12, and vitamin B6 in the diet
    * Too much water in the body 

High hematocrit may be due to:

    * Congenital heart disease
    * Failure of the right side of the heart
    * Too little water in the body (dehydration)
    * Low levels of oxygen in the blood
    * Scarring or thickening of the lungs
    * Bone marrow disease that causes abnormal increase in red blood cells 

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken.Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another and from one side of the body to the
other. Obtaining a blood sample from some people may be more difficult than
from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Hematoma (blood buildup under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

## Alternative Names

HCT

## Images

    * ![Formed elements of blood](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19192t.jpg)Formed elements of blood

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. H. Hematocrit (Hct) â blood. In: Chernecky CC,
Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:620-621.

Maheshwari A, Carlo WA. Blood disorders. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme
JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 103.

Vajpayee N, Graham SS, Bem S. Basic examination of blood and bone marrow. In:
McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by
Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 30.

## Review Date 2/18/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![A photo of purple topped vacutainer blood collection
tubes](https://medlineplus.gov/images/purple-topped-vacutainer-blood-
collection-tubes-contain-the-anticoagulant-359x544_thumb.jpg)Blood Count Tests
_Read more_

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Blood Disorders
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

