Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003665.htm    
                                Description: A blood smear is a blood test that gives information about the number and shape of blood cells. It is often done as part of or along with a complete blood count (CBC).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Blood smear

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003665.htm

# Blood smear

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A blood smear is a blood test that gives information about the number and
shape of blood cells. It is often done as part of or along with a complete
blood count (CBC).

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

The blood sample is sent to a lab. There, the lab technician looks at it under
a microscope. Or, the blood may be examined by an automated machine.

The smear provides this information:

    * The number and kinds of white blood cells (differential, or percentage of each type of cell)
    * The number and kinds of abnormally shaped blood cells 
    * A rough estimate of white blood cell and platelet counts

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is necessary.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or a slight bruise. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test may be done as part of a general health exam to help diagnose many
illnesses. Or, your health care provider may recommend this test if you have
signs of:

    * Any known or suspected blood disorder
    * Cancer
    * Leukemia

A blood smear may also be done to monitor the side effects of chemotherapy or
to help diagnose an infection, such as malaria.

## Normal Results

Red blood cells normally are the same size and color andÂ are a lighter color
in the center. The blood smear is considered normal if there is:

    * Normal appearance of cells
    * Normal white blood cell differential 

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your health care
provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results mean the size, shape, color, or coating of the red blood
cells (RBCs) is not normal.

Some abnormalities may be graded on a 4-point scale:

    * 1+ means one quarter of cells are affected
    * 2+ means one half of cells are affected
    * 3+ means three quarters of cells are affected
    * 4+ means all of the cells are affected 

Presence of cells called target cells may be due to:

    * Deficiency of an enzyme called lecithin cholesterol acyl transferase
    * Abnormal hemoglobin, the protein in red blood cells that carries oxygen (hemoglobinopathies)
    * Iron deficiency
    * Liver disease
    * Spleen removal 

Presence of sphere-shaped cells may be due to:

    * Low number of RBCs due to the body destroying them (immune hemolytic anemia)
    * Low number of RBCs due to some red blood cells shaped like spheres (hereditary spherocytosis)
    * Increased breakdown of RBCs 

Presence of RBCs with an oval shape may be a sign of hereditary elliptocytosis
or hereditary ovalocytosis. These are conditions in which RBCs are abnormally
shaped.

Presence of fragmented cells may be due to:

    * Artificial heart valve
    * Disorder in which the proteins that control blood clotting become overactive (disseminated intravascular coagulation)
    * Infection in the digestive system producing toxic substances that destroy red blood cells, causing kidney injury (hemolytic uremic syndrome)
    * Blood disorder that causes blood clots to form in small blood vessels around the body and leads to a low platelet count (thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura) 

Presence of a type of immature red blood cells called normoblasts may be due
to:

    * Cancer that has spread to bone marrow
    * Blood disorder called erythroblastosis fetalis that affects a fetus or newborn
    * Tuberculosis that has spread from the lungs to other parts of the body through the blood (miliary tuberculosis)
    * Disorder of the bone marrow in which the marrow is replaced by fibrous scar tissue (myelofibrosis)
    * Removal of spleen
    * Severe breakdown of RBCs (hemolysis)
    * Disorder in which there is excessive breakdown of hemoglobin (thalassemia) 

The presence of cells called burr cells may indicate:

    * Abnormally high level of nitrogen waste products in the blood (uremia) 

The presence of cells called spur cells may indicate:

    * Inability to fully absorb dietary fats through the intestines (abetalipoproteinemia)
    * Severe liver disease 

The presence of teardrop-shaped cells may indicate:

    * Myelofibrosis
    * Severe iron deficiency
    * Thalassemia major
    * Cancer in the bone marrow
    * Anemia caused by bone marrow not producing normal blood cells due to toxins or tumor cells (myelophthisic process)Â 

The presence of Howell-Jolly bodies (a type of granule) may indicate:

    * Bone marrow does not produce enough healthy blood cells (myelodysplasia)
    * Spleen has been removed
    * Sickle cell anemia

The presence of Heinz bodies (bits of altered hemoglobin) may indicate:

    * Alpha thalassemia
    * Congenital hemolytic anemia
    * Disorder in which red blood cells break down when the body is exposed to certain drugs orÂ is stressed because of infection (G6PD deficiency)
    * Unstable form of hemoglobin 

The presence of slightly immature red blood cells may indicate:

    * Anemia with bone marrow recovery
    * Hemolytic anemia
    * Hemorrhage 

The presence of basophilic stippling (a spotted appearance) may indicate:

    * Lead poisoning
    * Disorder of the bone marrow in which the marrow is replaced by fibrous scar tissue (myelofibrosis) 

The presence of sickle cells may indicate sickle cell anemia.

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken.Veins and arteries
vary in size from one patient to another and from one side of the body to the
other. Obtaining a blood sample from some people may be more difficult than
from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Hematoma (blood buildup under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

## Alternative Names

Peripheral smear; Complete blood count - peripheral; CBC - peripheral

## Images

    * ![Red blood cells, sickle cell](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1212t.jpg)Red blood cells, sickle cell
    * ![Red blood cells, tear-drop shape](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1217t.jpg)Red blood cells, tear-drop shape
    * ![Red blood cells - normal](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1218t.jpg)Red blood cells - normal
    * ![Red blood cells - elliptocytosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1219t.jpg)Red blood cells - elliptocytosis
    * ![Red blood cells - spherocytosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1220t.jpg)Red blood cells - spherocytosis
    * ![Acute lymphocytic leukemia - photomicrograph](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1221t.jpg)Acute lymphocytic leukemia - photomicrograph
    * ![Red blood cells - multiple sickle cells](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1223t.jpg)Red blood cells - multiple sickle cells
    * ![Malaria, microscopic view of cellular parasites](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1464t.jpg)Malaria, microscopic view of cellular parasites
    * ![Malaria, photomicrograph of cellular parasites](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1466t.jpg)Malaria, photomicrograph of cellular parasites
    * ![Red blood cells - sickle cells](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1494t.jpg)Red blood cells - sickle cells
    * ![Red blood cells - sickle and Pappenheimer](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1495t.jpg)Red blood cells - sickle and Pappenheimer
    * ![Red blood cells, target cells](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1497t.jpg)Red blood cells, target cells
    * ![Formed elements of blood](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19192t.jpg)Formed elements of blood

## References

Bain BJ. The peripheral blood smear. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 157.

Natelson EA, Chughtai-Harvey I, Rabbi S. Hematology. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP,
eds. _Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 39.

Warner EA, Herold AH. Interpreting laboratory tests. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP,
eds. _Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 14.

## Review Date 2/18/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![A photo of purple topped vacutainer blood collection
tubes](https://medlineplus.gov/images/purple-topped-vacutainer-blood-
collection-tubes-contain-the-anticoagulant-359x544_thumb.jpg)Blood Count Tests
_Read more_

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Blood Disorders
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

