Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001595.htm    
                                Description: Twin-to-twin transfusion syndrome is a rare condition that occurs only in identical twins while they are in the womb.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Twin-to-twin transfusion syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001595.htm

# Twin-to-twin transfusion syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Twin-to-twin transfusion syndrome is a rare condition that occurs only in
identical twins while they are in the womb.

![Twin-to-twin transfusion
syndrome](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200075t.gif)Watch this
video about:Twin-to-twin transfusion syndrome

## Causes

Twin-to-twin transfusion syndrome (TTTS) occurs when the blood supply of one
twin moves to the other through the shared placenta. The twin that loses the
blood is called the donor twin. The twin that receives the blood is called the
recipient twin.

Both infants may have problems, depending on how much blood is passed from one
to the other. The donor twin may have too little blood, and the other may have
too much blood.

## Symptoms

Most of the time, the donor twin is smaller than the other twin at birth. The
infant often has anemia, is dehydrated, and looks pale.

The recipient twin is born larger, with redness to the skin, too much blood,
and a higher blood pressure. The twin that gets too much blood may develop
cardiac failure because of the high blood volume. The infant may also need
medicine to strengthen heart function.

The unequal size of identical twins is referred to as discordant twins.

## Exams and Tests

This condition is most often diagnosed by ultrasound during pregnancy.

After birth, the infants will receive the following tests:

    * Blood clotting studies, including prothrombin time (PT) and partial thromboplastin time (PTT)
    * Comprehensive metabolic panel to determine electrolyte balance
    * Complete blood count
    * Chest x-ray 

## Treatment

Treatment may require repeated amniocentesis during pregnancy. Fetal laser
surgery may be done to stop the flow of blood from one twin to the other
during pregnancy.

After birth, treatment depends on the infant's symptoms. The donor twin may
need a blood transfusion to treat anemia.

The recipient twin may need to have the volume of body fluid reduced. This may
involve an exchange transfusion.

The recipient twin may also need to take medicine to prevent heart failure.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

If the twin-to-twin transfusion is mild, both babies often recover fully.
Severe cases may result in the death of a twin.

## Alternative Names

TTTS; Fetal transfusion syndrome

## References

Malone FD, D'alton ME. Multiple gestation: clinical characteristics and
management. In: Resnik R, Lockwood CJ, Moore TR, Greene MF, Copel JA, Silver
RM, eds. _Creasy and Resnik's Maternal-Fetal Medicine: Principles and
Practice_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 40.

Newman RB, Unal ER. Multiple gestations. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR, Simpson JL,
et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 32.

Obican SG, Odibo AO. Invasive fetal therapy. In: Resnik R, Lockwood CJ, Moore
TR, Greene MF, Copel JA, Silver RM, eds. _Creasy and Resnik's Maternal-Fetal
Medicine: Principles and Practice_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 37.

## Review Date 6/30/2019

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Blood Disorders
_Read more_

![Twins](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Twins_thumb.jpg)Twins, Triplets,
Multiple Births _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

