Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003657.htm    
                                Description: The blood differential test measures the percentage of each type of white blood cell (WBC) that you have in your blood. It also reveals if there are any abnormal or immature cells.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Blood differential test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003657.htm

# Blood differential test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The blood differential test measures the percentage of each type of white
blood cell (WBC) that you have in your blood. It also reveals if there are any
abnormal or immature cells.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

A laboratory specialist takes a drop of blood from your sample and smears it
onto a glass slide. The smear is stained with a special dye, which helps tell
the difference between various types of white blood cells.

Five types of white blood cells, also called leukocytes, normally appear in
the blood:

    * Neutrophils
    * Lymphocytes (B cells and T cells)
    * Monocytes
    * Eosinophils
    * Basophils

A special machine or a health care provider counts the number of each type of
cell. The test shows if the number of cells are in proper proportion with one
another, and if there is more or less of one cell type.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is necessary.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or slight bruising. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is done to diagnose an infection, anemia, or leukemia. It may also
be used to monitor one of these conditions, or to see if treatment is working.

## Normal Results

The different types of white blood cells are given as a percentage:

    * Neutrophils: 40% to 60%
    * Lymphocytes: 20% to 40%
    * Monocytes: 2% to 8%
    * Eosinophils: 1% to 4%
    * Basophils: 0.5% to 1%
    * Band (young neutrophil): 0% to 3% 

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Any infection or acute stress increases your number of white blood cells. High
white blood cell counts may be due to inflammation, an immune response, or
blood diseases such as leukemia.

It is important to realize that an abnormal increase in one type of white
blood cell can cause a decrease in the percentage of other types of white
blood cells.

An increased percentage of neutrophils may be due to:

    * Acute infection
    * Acute stress
    * Eclampsia (seizures or coma in a pregnant woman)
    * Gout (type of arthritis due to uric acid buildup in the blood)
    * Acute or chronic forms of leukemia
    * Myeloproliferative diseases
    * Rheumatoid arthritis
    * Rheumatic fever (disease due to an infection with group A streptococcus bacteria)
    * Thyroiditis (a thyroid disease)
    * Trauma 
    * Cigarette smoking

A decreased percentage of neutrophils may be due to:

    * Aplastic anemia
    * Chemotherapy
    * Influenza (flu)
    * Radiation therapy or exposure
    * Viral infection
    * Widespread severe bacterial infection 

An increased percentage of lymphocytes may be due to:

    * Chronic bacterial infection
    * Infectious hepatitis (liver swelling and inflammation from bacteria or viruses)
    * Infectious mononucleosis, or mono (viral infection that causes fever, sore throat, and swollen lymph glands)
    * Lymphocytic leukemia (a type of blood cancer)
    * Multiple myeloma (a type of blood cancer)
    * Viral infection (such as mumps or measles) 

A decreased percentage of lymphocytes may be due to:

    * Chemotherapy
    * HIV/AIDS infection
    * Leukemia
    * Radiation therapy or exposure
    * Sepsis (severe, inflammatory response to bacteria or other germs)
    * Steroid use 

An increased percentage of monocytes may be due to:

    * Chronic inflammatory disease
    * Leukemia
    * Parasitic infection
    * Tuberculosis, or TB (bacterial infection that involves the lungs)
    * Viral infection (for example, infectious mononucleosis, mumps, measles) 

An increased percentage of eosinophils may be due to:

    * Addison disease (adrenal glands do not produce enough hormones)
    * Allergic reaction
    * Cancer
    * Chronic myelogenous leukemia
    * Collagen vascular disease
    * Hypereosinophilic syndromes
    * Parasitic infection 

An increased percentage of basophils may be due to:

    * After splenectomy
    * Allergic reaction
    * Chronic myelogenous leukemia (a type of bone marrow cancer)
    * Collagen vascular disease
    * Myeloproliferative diseases (group of bone marrow diseases)
    * Chickenpox 

A decreased percentage of basophils may be due to:

    * Acute infection
    * Cancer
    * Severe injury 

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another, and from one side of the body to the
other. Taking blood from some people may be more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

## Alternative Names

Differential; Diff; White blood cell differential count

## Images

    * ![Basophil \(close-up\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1442t.jpg)Basophil (close-up)
    * ![Formed elements of blood](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19192t.jpg)Formed elements of blood

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Differential leukocyte count (diff) - peripheral
blood. In: Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic
Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:440-446.

Hutchison RE, Schexneider KI. Leukocytic disorders. In: McPherson RA, Pincus
MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_.
23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 33.

## Review Date 1/29/2019

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![A photo of purple topped vacutainer blood collection
tubes](https://medlineplus.gov/images/purple-topped-vacutainer-blood-
collection-tubes-contain-the-anticoagulant-359x544_thumb.jpg)Blood Count Tests
_Read more_

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Blood Disorders
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

