Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/karyotype-genetic-test/    
                                Description: A karyotype test looks at the size, shape, and number of your chromosomes. Chromosomes are parts of cells that contain genes. If the number or structure of your chromosomes is not normal, it can indicate a genetic disease. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Karyotype Genetic Test

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/karyotype-genetic-test/

# Karyotype Genetic Test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a karyotype test?

A karyotype test looks at the size, shape, and number of your chromosomes.
Chromosomes are the parts of your cells that contain your genes. Genes are
parts of DNA passed down from your mother and father. They carry information
that determines your unique traits, such as height and eye color.

People normally have 46 chromosomes, divided into 23 pairs, in each cell. One
of each pair of chromosomes comes from your mother, and the other pair comes
from your father.

If you have more or fewer chromosomes than 46, or if there is anything unusual
about the size or shape of your chromosomes, it can mean you have a genetic
disease. A karyotype test is often used to help find genetic defects in a
developing baby.

Other names: genetic testing, chromosome testing, chromosome studies,
cytogenetic analysis

## What is it used for?

A karyotype test may be used to:

    * Check an unborn baby for genetic disorders
    * Diagnose a genetic disease in a baby or young child
    * Find out if a chromosomal defect is preventing a woman from getting pregnant or is causing miscarriages
    * Check a stillborn baby (a baby that died late in pregnancy or during birth) to see if a chromosomal defect was the cause of death
    * See if you have a genetic disorder that could be passed along to your children
    * Diagnose or make a treatment plan for certain types of cancer and blood disorders

## Why do I need a karyotype test?

If you are pregnant, you may want to get a karyotype test for your unborn baby
if you have certain risk factors. These include:

    * Your age. The overall risk of genetic birth defects is small, but the risk is higher for women who have babies at age 35 or older.
    * Family history. Your risk is increased if you, your partner, and/or another one of your children has a genetic disorder.

Your baby or young child may need a test if he or she has signs of a genetic
disorder. There are many types of genetic disorders, each with different
symptoms. You and your health care provider can talk about whether testing is
recommended.

If you are a woman, you may need a karyotype test if you've had trouble
getting pregnant or have had several miscarriages. While one miscarriage is
not uncommon, if you have had several, it may be due to a chromosomal problem.

You may also need a karyotype test if you have symptoms of or have been
diagnosed with leukemia, lymphoma, or myeloma, or a certain type of anemia.
These disorders can cause chromosomal changes. Finding these changes can help
your provider diagnose, monitor, and/or treat the disease.

## What happens during a karyotype test?

For a karyotype test, your provider will need to take a sample of your cells.
The most common ways to get a sample include:

    *  **A blood test.** For this test, a health care professional will take a blood sample from a vein in your arm, using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a small amount of blood will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel a little sting when the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than five minutes.
    *  **Prenatal testing with amniocentesis or chorionic villus sampling (CVS).** Chorionic villi are tiny growths found in the placenta.

 **For amniocentesis:**

    * You'll lie on your back on an exam table.
    * Your provider will move an ultrasound device over your abdomen. Ultrasound uses sound waves to check the position of your uterus, placenta, and baby.
    * Your provider will insert a thin needle into your abdomen and withdraw a small amount of amniotic fluid.

Amniocentesis is usually done between week 15 and 20 of pregnancy.

 **For CVS:**

    * You'll lie on your back on an exam table.
    * Your provider will move an ultrasound device over your abdomen to check the position of your uterus, placenta, and baby.
    * Your provider will collect cells from the placenta in one of two ways: either through your cervix with a thin tube called a catheter, or with a thin needle through your abdomen.

CVS is usually done between week 10 and 13 of pregnancy.

 **Bone Marrow Aspiration and Biopsy.** If you are being tested for or treated
for a certain type of cancer or blood disorder, your provider may need to take
a sample of your bone marrow. For this test:

    * You'll lie on your side or your stomach, depending on which bone will be used for testing. Most bone marrow tests are taken from the hip bone.
    * The site will be cleaned with an antiseptic.
    * You will get an injection of a numbing solution.
    * Once the area is numb, the health care provider will take the sample.
    * For a bone marrow aspiration, which is usually performed first, the health care provider will insert a needle through the bone and pull out bone marrow fluid and cells. You may feel a sharp but brief pain when the needle is inserted.
    * For a bone marrow biopsy, the health care provider will use a special tool that twists into the bone to take out a sample of bone marrow tissue. You may feel some pressure on the site while the sample is being taken.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You don't need any special preparation for karyotype testing.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

Amniocentesis and CVS tests are usually very safe procedures, but they do have
a slight risk of causing a miscarriage. Talk to your health care provider
about the risks and benefits of these tests.

After a bone marrow aspiration and biopsy test, you may feel stiff or sore at
the injection site. This usually goes away in a few days. Your health care
provider may recommend or prescribe a pain reliever to help.

## What do the results mean?

If your results were abnormal (not normal,) it means you or your child has
more or fewer than 46 chromosomes, or there is something abnormal about the
size, shape, or structure of one or more of your chromosomes. Abnormal
chromosomes can cause a variety of health problems. The symptoms and severity
depend on which chromosomes have been affected.

Some disorders caused by chromosomal defects include:

    *  **Down syndrome,** a disorder that causes intellectual disabilities and developmental delays
    *  **Edwards syndrome,** a disorder that causes severe problems in the heart, lungs, and kidneys
    *  **Turner syndrome,** a disorder in girls that affects the development of female characteristics

If you were tested because you have a certain type of cancer or blood
disorder, your results can show whether or not your condition is caused by a
chromosomal defect. These results can help your health care provider make the
best treatment plan for you.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about a karyotype test?

If you are thinking about getting tested or have received abnormal results on
your karyotype test, it may help to speak to a genetic counselor. A genetic
counselor is a specially trained professional in genetics and genetic testing.
He or she can explain what your results mean, direct you to support services,
and help you make informed decisions about your health or the health of your
child.

## References

    1. ACOG: Women's Healthcare Physicians [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists; c2017. Having a Baby After Age 35 [cited 2018 Jun 22]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.acog.org/Patients/FAQs/Having-a-Baby-After-Age-35
    2. American Cancer Society [Internet]. Atlanta: American Cancer Society Inc.; c2018. How Is Chronic Myeloid Leukemia Diagnosed? [updated 2016 Feb 22; cited 2018 Jun 22]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.org/cancer/chronic-myeloid-leukemia/detection-diagnosis-staging/how-diagnosed.html
    3. American Cancer Society [Internet]. Atlanta: American Cancer Society Inc.; c2018. Tests to Find Multiple Myeloma [updated 2018 Feb 28; cited 2018 Jun 22]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.org/cancer/multiple-myeloma/detection-diagnosis-staging/testing.html
    4. American Pregnancy Association [Internet]. Irving (TX): American Pregnancy Association; c2018. Amniocentesis [updated 2016 Sep 2; cited 2018 Jun 22]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: http://americanpregnancy.org/prenatal-testing/amniocentesis
    5. American Pregnancy Association [Internet]. Irving (TX): American Pregnancy Association; c2018. Chorionic Villus Sampling: CVS [updated 2016 Sep 2; cited 2018 Jun 22]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: http://americanpregnancy.org/prenatal-testing/chorionic-villus-sampling
    6. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Genetic Counseling [updated 2016 Mar 3; cited 2018 Jun 22]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/genomics/gtesting/genetic_counseling.htm
    7. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. Chromosome Analysis (Karyotyping) [updated 2018 Jun 22; cited 2018 Jun 22]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/chromosome-analysis-karyotyping
    8. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. Down Syndrome [updated 2018 Feb 28; cited 2018 Jun 22]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/conditions/down-syndrome
    9. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2018. Bone marrow biopsy and aspiration: Overview; 2018 Jan 12 [cited 2018 Jun 22]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/tests-procedures/bone-marrow-biopsy/about/pac-20393117
    10. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2018. Chronic myelogenous leukemia: Diagnosis and treatment; 2016 May 26 [cited 2018 Jun 22]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/chronic-myelogenous-leukemia/symptoms-causes/syc-20352417
    11. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co., Inc.; c2018. Bone Marrow Examination [cited 2018 Jun 22]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: http://www.merckmanuals.com/home/blood-disorders/symptoms-and-diagnosis-of-blood-disorders/bone-marrow-examination
    12. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co., Inc.; c2018. Overview of Chromosome and Gene Disorders [cited 2018 Jun 22]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.merckmanuals.com/home/children-s-health-issues/chromosome-and-gene-abnormalities/overview-of-chromosome-and-gene-disorders
    13. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co., Inc.; c2018. Trisomy 18 (Edwards Syndrome; Trisomy E) [cited 2018 Jun 22]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.merckmanuals.com/home/children-s-health-issues/chromosome-and-gene-abnormalities/trisomy-18
    14. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Blood Tests [cited 2018 Jun 22]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    15. NIH National Human Genome Research Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Chromosome Abnormalities; 2016 Jan 6 [cited 2018 Jun 22]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.genome.gov/11508982
    16. NIH U.S. National Library of Medicine: Genetics Home Reference [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What are the types of genetic tests?; 2018 Jun 19 [cited 2018 Jun 22]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://ghr.nlm.nih.gov/primer/testing/uses
    17. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2018. Health Encyclopedia: Chromosome Analysis [cited 2018 Jun 22]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid=chromosome_analysis
    18. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2018. Health Encyclopedia: Turner Syndrome (Monosomy X) in Children [cited 2018 Jun 22]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=90&contentid=p02421
    19. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Health Information: Amniocentesis: How It is Done [updated 2017 Jun 6; cited 2018 Jun 22]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/amniocentesis/hw1810.html#hw1839
    20. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Health Information: Chorionic Villus Sampling (CVS): How It is Done [updated 2017 May 17; cited 2018 Jun 22]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/chorionic-villus-sampling/hw4104.html#hw4121
    21. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Health Information: Karyotype Test: How It is Done [updated 2017 Oct 9; cited 2018 Jun 22]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/karyotype-test/hw6392.html#hw6410
    22. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Health Information: Karyotype Test: Test Overview [updated 2017 Oct 9; cited 2018 Jun 22]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/karyotype-test/hw6392.html
    23. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Health Information: Karyotype Test: Why It is Done [updated 2017 Oct 9; cited 2018 Jun 22]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/karyotype-test/hw6392.html#hw6402

## Related Health Topics

    * Birth Defects
    * Down Syndrome
    * Genetic Testing
    * Leukemia
    * Lymphoma
    * Multiple Myeloma
    * Prenatal Testing
    * Turner Syndrome

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Alpha-Fetoprotein (AFP) Test
    * Bone Marrow Tests
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 25 February 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

