Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003412.htm    
                                Description: The methylene blue test is a test to determine the type or to treatÂ methemoglobinemia, a blood disorder.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Methylene blue test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003412.htm

# Methylene blue test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The methylene blue test is a test to determine the type or to treatÂ
methemoglobinemia, a blood disorder.

## How the Test is Performed

The health care provider wraps a tight band or blood pressure cuff around your
upper arm. The pressure causes veins below the area to fill with blood.

The arm is cleaned with a germ killer (antiseptic). A needle is placed into
your vein, usually near the inside of the elbow or back of the hand. A thin
tube, called a catheter, is placed into the vein. (This may be called an IV,
which means intravenous). While the tube stays in place, the needle and
tourniquet are removed.

A dark green powder called methylene blue goes through the tube into your
vein. The provider looks at how the powder turns a substance in the blood
called methemoglobin into normal hemoglobin.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is required for this test.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or slight bruising. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

There are several types of oxygen-carrying proteins in the blood. One of them
is methemoglobin. Normal methemoglobin level in blood are usually 1%. If the
level is higher, you can become sick because the protein is not carrying
oxygen. This can make your blood look brown instead of red.

Methemoglobinemia has several causes, many of which are genetic (problem with
your genes). This test is used to tell the difference between
methemoglobinemia caused by the lack of a protein called cytochrome b5
reductase and other types that are passed down through families (inherited).
Your doctor will use the results of this test to help determine your
treatment.

## Normal Results

Normally, methylene blue quickly lowers the level of methemoglobin in the
blood.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your provider
about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

You may have a rare form of methemoglobinemia if this test does not
significantly lower the blood level of methemoglobin.

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another and from one side of the body to the
other. Inserting an IV may be more difficult for you or your child than for
other people.

Other risks associated with this type of blood test are minor, but may
include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin causing bruising)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken, but the chances of infection increase the longer the IV remains in the vein) 

## Alternative Names

Methemoglobinemia - methylene blue test

## References

Benz EJ, Ebert BL. Hemoglobin variants associated with hemolytic anemia,
altered oxygen affinity, and methemoglobinemias. In: Hoffman R, Benz EJ,
Silberstein LE, et al, eds. _Hematology: Basic Principles and Practice._ 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 43.

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. MethemoglobinÂ - blood. In: Chernecky CC, Berger BJ,
eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO:
Elsevier Saunders; 2013:781-782.

## Review Date 10/15/2018

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Blood Disorders
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

