Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003427.htm    
                                Description: A capillary sample is a blood sample collected by pricking the skin. Capillaries are tiny blood vessels near the surface of the skin.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Capillary sample

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003427.htm

# Capillary sample

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A capillary sample is a blood sample collected by pricking the skin.
Capillaries are tiny blood vessels near the surface of the skin.

## How the Test is Performed

The test is done in the following way:

    * The area is cleansed with antiseptic.
    * The skin of the finger, heel or another areaÂ isÂ pricked with a sharp needle or a lancet. 
    * The blood may be collected in a pipette (small glass tube), on a slide, onto a test strip, or into a small container. 
    * Cotton or a bandage may be applied to the puncture site if there is any continued bleeding.

## How the Test will Feel

Some people feel moderate pain. Others feel only a prick or stinging
sensation. Afterward, there may be some throbbing.

## Why the Test is Performed

Blood transports oxygen, food, waste products, and other materials within the
body. It also helps regulate body temperature. Blood is made up of cells and a
fluid called plasma. Plasma contains various dissolved substances. The cells
are mainlyÂ red blood cells, white blood cells and platelets.

Because blood has many functions, tests on the blood or its components provide
valuable clues in the diagnosis of medical conditions.

Capillary blood sampling has several advantages over drawing blood from a
vein:

    * It is easy to obtain (it can be difficult to obtain blood from the veins, especially in infants).
    * There are several collection sites on the body, and these sites can be rotated.
    * Testing can be done at home and with little training. For example, persons with diabetes must check their blood sugar several times a day using capillary blood sampling. 

Disadvantages to capillary blood sampling include:

    * Only a limited amount of blood can be drawn using this method.
    * The procedure has some risks (see below).
    * Capillary blood sampling may result in inaccurate results, such as falsely elevated sugar, electrolyte, and blood count values. 

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Results vary depending on the test done. Your health care provider can tell
you more.

## Risks

Risks of this test may include any of the following:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)
    * Scarring (occurs when there have been multiple punctures in the same area)
    * Calcified nodules (sometimes occurs in infants, but usually disappear by 30 months of age)
    * Damage to blood cells from this method of collection can sometimes cause inaccurate test results and the need to repeat the test with blood drawn from a vein

## Alternative Names

Blood sample - capillary; Fingerstick; Heelstick

## Images

    * ![Phenylketonuria test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2961t.jpg)Phenylketonuria test
    * ![Newborn screening testing](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2962t.jpg)Newborn screening testing
    * ![Capillary sample](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9155t.jpg)Capillary sample

## References

Garza D, Becan-McBride K. Capillary of dermal blood specimens. In: Garza D,
Becan-McBride K, eds. _Phlebotomy Handbook_. 10th ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ:
Pearson; 2018:chap 11.

Vajpayee N, Graham SS, Bem S. Basic examination of blood and bone marrow. In:
McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by
Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 30.

## Review Date 5/17/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Blood _Read
more_

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Blood Disorders
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

