Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003639.htm    
                                Description: Hemoglobin is a protein that carries oxygen in the blood. Hemoglobin electrophoresis measures the levels of the different types of this protein in the blood.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hemoglobin electrophoresis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003639.htm

# Hemoglobin electrophoresis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hemoglobin is a protein that carries oxygen in the blood. Hemoglobin
electrophoresis measures the levels of the different types of this protein in
the blood.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

In the lab, the technician places the blood sample on special paper and
applies an electric current. The hemoglobins move on the paper and form bands
that show the amount of each type of hemoglobin.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is necessary for this test.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging sensation. Afterward, there may be some
throbbing or a slight bruise. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

You may have this test if your health care provider suspects that you have a
disorder caused by abnormal forms of hemoglobin (hemoglobinopathy).

Many different types of hemoglobin (Hb) exist. The most common ones are HbA,
HbA2, HbE, HbF, HbS, HbC, HbH, and HbM. Healthy adults only have significant
levels of only HbA and HbA2.

Some people may also have small amounts of HbF. This is the main type of
hemoglobin in an unborn baby's body. Certain diseases are associated with high
HbF levels (when HbF is more than 2% of the total hemoglobin).

HbS is an abnormal form of hemoglobin associated with sickle cell anemia. In
people with this condition, the red blood cells sometimes have a crescent or
sickle shape. These cells easily break down or can block small blood vessels.

HbC is an abnormal form of hemoglobin associated with hemolytic anemia. The
symptoms are much milder than they are in sickle cell anemia.

Other, less common, abnormal Hb molecules cause other types ofÂ anemia.

## Normal Results

In adults, these are normal percentages of different hemoglobin molecules:

    * HbA: 95% to 98% (0.95 to 0.98)
    * HbA2: 2% to 3% (0.02 to 0.03)
    * HbE: Absent
    * HbF: 0.8% to 2% (0.008 to 0.02)Â 
    * HbS: Absent
    * HbC: Absent

In infants and children, these are normal percentage of HbF molecules:

    * HbF (newborn): 50% to 80% (0.5 to 0.8)
    * HbF (6 months): 8%
    * HbF (over 6 months): 1% to 2%

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or may test different samples. Talk to your
provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Significant levels of abnormal hemoglobins may indicate:

    * Hemoglobin C disease
    * Rare hemoglobinopathy
    * Sickle cell anemia
    * Inherited blood disorder in which the body makes an abnormal form of hemoglobin (thalassemia)

You may have false normal or abnormal results if you have had a blood
transfusion within 12 weeks of this test.

## Risks

There is very little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and
arteries vary in size from one person to another and from one side of the body
to the other. Taking blood from some people may be more difficult than from
others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Hematoma (blood buildup under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

## Alternative Names

Hb electrophoresis; Hgb electrophoresis; Electrophoresis - hemoglobin;
Thallasemia - electrophoresis; Sickle cell - electrophoresis; Hemoglobinopathy
- electrophoresis

## References

Bunn HF. Approach to the anemias. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 158.

Goljan EF. Red blood cell disorders. In: Goljan EF, ed. _Rapid Review
Pathology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 12.

## Review Date 2/18/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Anemia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Anemia_thumb.jpg)Anemia _Read more_

![A photo of purple topped vacutainer blood collection
tubes](https://medlineplus.gov/images/purple-topped-vacutainer-blood-
collection-tubes-contain-the-anticoagulant-359x544_thumb.jpg)Blood Count Tests
_Read more_

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Blood Disorders
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

