Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000572.htm    
                                Description: Hemoglobin C disease is a blood disorder passed down through families. It leads to a type of anemia, which occurs when red blood cells break down earlier than normal.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hemoglobin C disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000572.htm

# Hemoglobin C disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hemoglobin C disease is a blood disorder passed down through families. It
leads to a type of anemia, which occurs when red blood cells break down
earlier than normal.

## Causes

Hemoglobin C is an abnormal type of hemoglobin, the protein in red blood cells
that carries oxygen. It is a type of hemoglobinopathy. The disease is caused
by a problem with a gene called beta globin.

The disease most often occurs in African Americans. You are more likely to
have hemoglobin C disease if someone in your family has had it.

## Symptoms

Most people do not have symptoms. In some cases, jaundice may occur. Some
people may develop gallstones that need to be treated.

## Exams and Tests

A physical exam may show an enlarged spleen.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Complete blood count
    * Hemoglobin electrophoresis
    * Peripheral blood smear
    * Blood hemoglobin

## Treatment

In most cases, no treatment is needed. Folic acid supplements may help your
body produce normal red blood cells and improve the symptoms of the anemia.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

People with hemoglobin C disease can expect to lead a normal life.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Anemia 
    * Gallbladder disease
    * Enlargement of the spleen

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have symptoms of hemoglobin C disease.

## Prevention

You may want to seek genetic counseling if you are at high risk for the
condition and are considering having a baby.

## Alternative Names

Clinical hemoglobin C

## Images

    * ![Blood cells](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9123t.jpg)Blood cells

## References

DeBaun MR, Frei-Jones MJ, Vichinsky EP. Hemoglobinopathies. In: Kliegman RM,
Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 462.

Steinberg MH. Sickle cell disease and other hemoglobinopathies. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 163.

Wilson CS, Vergara-Lluri ME, Brynes RK. Evaluation of anemia, leukopenia, and
thrombocytopenia. In: Jaffee ES, Arber DA, Campo E, Harris NL, Quintanilla-
Martinez L, eds. _Hematopathology_.Â 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 11.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Anemia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Anemia_thumb.jpg)Anemia _Read more_

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Blood Disorders
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

