Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000563.htm    
                                Description: Hereditary elliptocytosis is a disorder passed down through families in which the red blood cells are abnormally shaped. It is similar to other blood conditions such as hereditary spherocytosis and hereditary    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hereditary elliptocytosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000563.htm

# Hereditary elliptocytosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hereditary elliptocytosis is a disorder passed down through families in which
the red blood cells are abnormally shaped. It is similar to other blood
conditions such as hereditary spherocytosis and hereditary ovalocystosis.

## Causes

Elliptocytosis affects about 1 in every 2,500 people of northern European
heritage. It is more common in people of African and Mediterranean descent.
You are more likely to develop this condition if someone in your family has
had it.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

    * Fatigue
    * Shortness of breath
    * Yellow skin and eyes (jaundice). May continue for a long time in a newborn. 

## Exams and Tests

An exam by your health care provider may show an enlarged spleen.

The following test results may help diagnose the condition:

    * Bilirubin level may be high.
    * Blood smear may show elliptical red blood cells.
    * Complete blood count (CBC) may show anemia or signs of red blood cell destruction.
    * Lactate dehydrogenase level may be high.
    * Imaging of the gallbladder may show gallstones.

## Treatment

There is no treatment needed for the disorder unless severe anemia or anemia
symptoms occur. Surgery to remove the spleen may decrease the rate of red
blood cell damage.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most people with hereditary elliptocytosis have no problems. They often do not
know they have the condition.

## Possible Complications

Elliptocytosis is often harmless. In mild cases, fewer than 15% of red blood
cells are elliptical-shaped. However, some people may have crises in which the
red blood cells rupture. This is more like to happen when they have a viral
infection. People with this disease can develop anemia, jaundice, and
gallstones.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have jaundice that does not go away or symptoms of
anemia or gallstones.

## Prevention

Genetic counseling may be appropriate for people with a family history of this
disease who wish to become parents.

## Alternative Names

Elliptocytosis - hereditary

## Images

    * ![Red blood cells - elliptocytosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1219t.jpg)Red blood cells - elliptocytosis
    * ![Blood cells](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9123t.jpg)Blood cells

## References

Gallagher PG. Hemolytic anemias: red blood cell membrane and metabolic
defects. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 161.

Gallagher PG. Red blood cell membrane disorders. In: Hoffman R, Benz EJ,
Silberstein LE, et al, eds. _Hematology: Basic Principles and Practice_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 45.

Segel GB. Hereditary elliptocytosis. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW,
Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 459.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Blood Disorders
_Read more_

![Genetic
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GeneticDisorders_thumb.jpg)Genetic
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

