Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003645.htm    
                                Description: Hemoglobin is a protein in red blood cells that carries oxygen. The hemoglobin test measures how much hemoglobin is in your blood.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hemoglobin

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003645.htm

# Hemoglobin

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hemoglobin is a protein in red blood cells that carries oxygen. The hemoglobin
test measures how much hemoglobin is in your blood.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is necessary.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or a slight bruise. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

The hemoglobin test is a common test and is almost always done as part of a
complete blood count (CBC). Reasons or conditions for ordering the hemoglobin
test include:

    * Symptoms such as fatigue, poor health, or unexplained weight loss
    * Signs of bleeding
    * Before and after major surgery
    * During pregnancy
    * Chronic kidney disease or many other chronic medical problems
    * Monitoring of anemia and its cause
    * Monitoring during treatment for cancer
    * Monitoring medicines that may cause anemia or low blood counts 

## Normal Results

Normal results for adults vary, but in general are:

    * Male: 13.8 to 17.2 grams per deciliter (g/dL) or 138 to 172 grams per liter (g/L)
    * Female: 12.1 to 15.1 g/dL or 121 to 151 g/L

Normal results for children vary, but in general are:

    * Newborn: 14 to 24 g/dL or 140 to 240 g/L
    * Infant: 9.5 to 13 g/dL or 95 to 130 g/L

The ranges above are common measurements for results of these tests. Normal
value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs use
different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your health care
provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

LOWER THAN NORMAL HEMOGLOBIN

Low hemoglobin level may be due to:

    * Anemia caused by red blood cells dying earlier than normal (hemolytic anemia)
    * Anemia (various types)
    * Bleeding from digestive tract or bladder, heavy menstrual periods
    * Chronic kidney disease
    * Bone marrow being unable to produce new red blood cells. This may be due to leukemia, other cancers, drug toxicity, radiation therapy, infection, or bone marrow disorders
    * Poor nutrition (including low level of iron, folate, vitamin B12, or vitamin B6)
    * Low level of iron, folate, vitamin B12, or vitamin B6
    * Other chronic illness, such as rheumatoid arthritis 

HIGHER THAN NORMAL HEMOGLOBIN

High hemoglobin level is most often caused by low oxygen levels in the blood
(hypoxia), present over a long period of time. Common reasons include:

    * Certain birth defects of the heart that are present at birth (congenital heart disease)
    * Failure of the right side of the heart (cor pulmonale)
    * Severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)
    * Scarring or thickening of the lungs (pulmonary fibrosis) and other severe lung disorders 

Other reasons for high hemoglobin level includes:

    * A rare bone marrow disease that leads to an abnormal increase in the number of blood cells (polycythemia vera)
    * The body having too little water and fluids (dehydration) 

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken.Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another and from one side of the body to the
other. Obtaining a blood sample from some people may be more difficult than
from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Hematoma (blood buildup under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

## Alternative Names

Hgb; Hb; Anemia - Hb; Polycythemia - Hb

## Images

    * ![Hemoglobin](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19510t.jpg)Hemoglobin

## References

Bunn HF. Approach to the anemias In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 158.

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Hemoglobin (HB, Hgb). In: Chernecky CC, Berger BJ,
eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2013:621-623.

## Review Date 2/18/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![A photo of purple topped vacutainer blood collection
tubes](https://medlineplus.gov/images/purple-topped-vacutainer-blood-
collection-tubes-contain-the-anticoagulant-359x544_thumb.jpg)Blood Count Tests
_Read more_

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Blood Disorders
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

