Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000534.htm    
                                Description: Paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria is a rare disease in which red blood cells break down earlier than normal.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria (PNH)

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000534.htm

# Paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria (PNH)

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria is a rare disease in which red blood cells
break down earlier than normal.

## Causes

People with this disease have blood cells that are missing a gene called
PIG-A. This gene allows a substance called glycosyl-phosphatidylinositol (GPI)
to help certain proteins stick to cells.

Without PIG-A, important proteins cannot connect to the cell surface and
protect the cell from substances in the blood called complement. As a result,
red blood cells break down too early. The red cells leak hemoglobin into the
blood, which can pass into the urine. This can happen at any time, but is more
likely to occur during the night or early morning.

The disease can affect people of any age. It may be associated with aplastic
anemia, myelodysplastic syndrome, or acute myelogenous leukemia.

Risk factors, except for prior aplastic anemia, are not known.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

    * Abdominal pain
    * Back pain
    * Blood clots, may form in some people
    * Dark urine, comes and goes
    * Easy bruising or bleeding
    * Headache
    * Shortness of breath
    * Weakness, fatigue
    * Pallor
    * Chest pain
    * Difficulty swallowing

## Exams and Tests

Red and white blood cell counts and platelet counts may be low.

Red or brown urine signals the breakdown of red blood cells and that
hemoglobin is being released into the body's circulation and eventually into
the urine.

Tests that may be done to diagnose this condition include:

    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * Coombs test
    * Flow cytometry to measure certain proteins
    * Ham (acid hemolysin) test
    * Serum hemoglobin and haptoglobin
    * Sucrose hemolysis test
    * Urinalysis
    * Urine hemosiderin, urobilinogen, hemoglobin
    * LDH test
    * Reticulocyte count

## Treatment

Steroids or other medicines that suppress the immune system may help slow the
breakdown of red blood cells. Blood transfusions may be needed. Supplemental
iron and folic acid are provided. Blood thinners may also be needed to prevent
clots from forming.

Soliris (eculizumab) is a drug used to treat PNH. It blocks the breakdown of
red blood cells.

Bone marrow transplantation can cure this disease.Â It may also stop the risk
of developing PNH in people with aplastic anemia.

All people with PNH should receive vaccinations against certain types of
bacteria to prevent infection. Ask your health care provider which ones are
right for you.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome varies. Most people survive for more than 10 years after their
diagnosis. Death can result from complications such as blood clot formation
(thrombosis) or bleeding.

In rare cases, the abnormal cells may decrease over time.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Acute myelogenous leukemia
    * Aplastic anemia
    * Blood clots
    * Death
    * Hemolytic anemia
    * Iron deficiency anemia
    * Myelodysplasia 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you find blood in your urine, if symptoms worsen or do
not improve with treatment, or if new symptoms develop.

## Prevention

There is no known way to prevent this disorder.

## Alternative Names

PNH

## Images

    * ![Blood cells](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9123t.jpg)Blood cells

## References

Brodsky RA. Paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria. In: Hoffman R, Benz EJ,
Silberstein LE, et al, eds. _Hematology: Basic Principles and Practice_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 31.

Michel M. Autoimmune and intravascular hemolytic anemias. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 160.

Parker CJ, Ware RE. Paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria. In: Orkin SH, Fisher
DE, Ginsburg D, Look AT, Lux SE, Nathan DG, eds. _Nathan and Oski's Hematology
and Oncology of Infancy and Childhood_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 14.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical Oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Anemia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Anemia_thumb.jpg)Anemia _Read more_

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Blood Disorders
_Read more_

![Bone Marrow
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BoneMarrowDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bone
Marrow Diseases _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

