Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000562.htm    
                                Description: Methemoglobinemia (MetHb) is a blood disorder in which an abnormal amount of methemoglobin is produced. Hemoglobin is the protein in red blood cells (RBCs) that carries and distributes oxygen to the body.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Methemoglobinemia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000562.htm

# Methemoglobinemia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Methemoglobinemia (MetHb) is a blood disorder in which an abnormal amount of
methemoglobin is produced. Hemoglobin is the protein in red blood cells (RBCs)
that carries and distributes oxygen to the body. Methemoglobin is a form of
hemoglobin.

With methemoglobinemia, the hemoglobin can carry oxygen, but is not able to
release it effectively to body tissues.

## Causes

MetHb condition can be:

    * Passed down through families (inherited or congenital)
    * Caused by exposure to certain medicines, chemicals, or foods (acquired)

There areÂ two forms of inherited MetHb. The first form is passed on by both
parents. The parents usually do not have the condition themselves. They carry
the gene that causes the condition. It occurs when there is a problem with an
enzyme called cytochrome b5 reductase.

There areÂ two types of inherited MetHb:

    * Type 1 (also called erythrocyte reductase deficiency) occurs when RBCs lack the enzyme. 
    * Type 2 (also called generalized reductase deficiency) occurs when the enzyme doesn't work in the body. 

The second form of inherited MetHb is called hemoglobin M disease. It is
caused by defects in the hemoglobinÂ protein itself. OnlyÂ one parent needs to
pass on the abnormal gene for the child to inherit the disease.

Acquired MetHb is more common than the inherited forms. It occurs in some
people after they are exposed to certain chemicals and medicines, including:

    * Anesthetics such as benzocaine 
    * Nitrobenzene
    * Certain antibiotics (including dapsone and chloroquine) 
    * Nitrites (used as additives to prevent meat from spoiling) 

## Symptoms

Symptoms of type 1 MetHb include:

    * Bluish coloring of the skin 

Symptoms of type 2 MetHb include:

    * Developmental delay 
    * Failure to thrive 
    * Intellectual disability 
    * Seizures

Symptoms of hemoglobin M disease include:

    * Bluish coloring of the skin 

Symptoms of acquired MetHb include:

    * Bluish coloring of the skin
    * Headache
    * Giddiness
    * Altered mental state
    * Fatigue
    * Shortness of breath
    * Lack of energy

## Exams and Tests

A baby with this condition will have a bluish skin color (cyanosis) at birth
or shortly afterward. The health care provider will perform blood tests to
diagnose the condition. Tests may include:

    * Checking the oxygen level in the blood (pulse oximetry)
    * Blood test to check levels of gases in the blood (arterial blood gas analysis)

## Treatment

People with hemoglobin M disease don't have symptoms. So, they may not need
treatment.

A medicine called methylene blue is used to treat severe MetHb. Methylene blue
may be unsafe in people who have or may be at risk for a blood disease called
G6PD deficiency. They should not take this medicine. If you or your child has
G6PD deficiency, always tell your provider before getting treatment.

Ascorbic acid may also be used to reduce the level of methemoglobin.

Alternative treatments include hyperbaric oxygen therapy, red blood cell
transfusion and exchange transfusions.

In most cases of mild acquired MetHb, no treatment is needed. But you should
avoid the medicine or chemical that caused the problem. Severe cases may need
a blood transfusion.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

People with type 1 MetHb and hemoglobin M disease often do well. Type 2 MetHb
is more serious. It often causes death within the first few years of life.

People with acquired MetHb often do very well once the medicine, food, or
chemical that caused the problem is identified and avoided.

## Possible Complications

Complications of MetHb include:

    * Shock
    * Seizures
    * Death

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you:

    * Have a family history of MetHb
    * Develop symptoms of this disorder

Call your provider or emergency services (911)Â right awayÂ if you have severe
shortness of breath.

## Prevention

Genetic counseling is suggested for couples with a family history of MetHb and
are considering having children.

Babies 6 months or younger are more likely to develop methemoglobinemia.
Therefore, homemade baby food purees made from vegetables containing high
levels of natural nitrates, such as carrots, beetroots, or spinach should be
avoided.

## Alternative Names

Hemoglobin M disease; Erythrocyte reductase deficiency; Generalized reductase
deficiency; MetHb

## Images

    * ![Blood cells](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9123t.jpg)Blood cells

## References

Benz EJ, Ebert BL. Hemoglobin variants associated with hemolytic anemia,
altered oxygen affinity, and methemoglobinemias. In: Hoffman R, Benz EJ,
Silberstein LE, eds. _Hematology: Basic Principles and Practice_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 43.

Bunn HF. Approach to the anemias. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 158.

Diab Y, Luchtman-Jones L. Hematologic and oncologic problems in the fetus and
neonate. In: Martin RJ, Fanaroff AA, Walsh MC, eds. _Fanaroff and Martin's
Neonatal-Perinatal Medicine Diseases of the Fetus and Infant_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 88.

## Review Date 4/2/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Blood Disorders
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

