Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003673.htm    
                                Description: The sugar-water hemolysis test is a blood test to detect fragile red blood cells. It does this by testing how well they withstand swelling in a sugar (sucrose) solution.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Sugar-water hemolysis test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003673.htm

# Sugar-water hemolysis test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The sugar-water hemolysis test is a blood test to detect fragile red blood
cells. It does this by testing how well they withstand swelling in a sugar
(sucrose) solution.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

There is no special preparation needed for this test.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or a slight bruise. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

Your health care provider may recommend this test if you have signs or
symptoms of paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria (PNH) or hemolytic anemia of
unknown cause. Hemolytic anemia is a condition in which red blood cells die
before they should. PNH red blood cells are very likely to be harmed by the
body's complement system. The complement system is proteins that move through
the bloodstream. These proteins work with the immune system.

## Normal Results

A normal test result is called a negative result. A normal result shows that
less than 5% of red blood cells break down when tested. This breakdown is
called hemolysis.

A negative test does not rule out PNH. False-negative results may occur if the
fluid part of blood (serum) lacks complement.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your provider
about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A positive test result means the results are abnormal. In a positive test,
more than 10% of red blood cells break down. It could indicate the person has
PNH.

Certain conditions can make the test results appear positive (called "false
positive"). These conditions are autoimmune hemolytic anemias and leukemia.

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another and from one side of the body to the
other. Taking blood from some people may be more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Hematoma (blood buildup under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

## Alternative Names

Sucrose hemolysis test; Hemolytic anemia sugar water hemolysis test;
Paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria sugar water hemolysis test; PNH sugar
water hemolysis test

## References

Brodsky RA. Paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria. In: Hoffman R, Benz EJ,
Silberstein LE, eds. _Hematology: Basic Principles and Practice_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 31.

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Sucrose hemolysis test - diagnostic. In: Chernecky
CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:1050.

Gallagher PG. Hemolytic anemias: red blood cell membrane and metabolic
defects. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 161.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longsteet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Anemia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Anemia_thumb.jpg)Anemia _Read more_

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Blood Disorders
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

