Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003422.htm    
                                Description: An arterial stick is the collection of blood from an artery for laboratory testing.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Arterial stick

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003422.htm

# Arterial stick

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An arterial stick is the collection of blood from an artery for laboratory
testing.

## How the Test Is Performed

Blood is usually drawn from an artery in the wrist. It may also be drawn from
an artery on the inside of the elbow, groin, or other site. If blood is drawn
from the wrist, the health care provider will usually first check the pulse.
This is to make sure blood is flowing into the hand from the main arteries in
the forearm (radial and ulnar arteries).

The procedure is done as follows:

    * The area is cleaned with antiseptic.
    * A needle is inserted. A small amount of anesthetic may be injected or applied before the needle is inserted.
    * Blood flows into a special collecting syringe.
    * The needle is removed after enough blood is collected.
    * Pressure is applied to the puncture site for 5 to 10 minutes to stop the bleeding. The site will be checked during this time to make sure the bleeding stops. 

If it is easier to get blood from one location or side of your body, let the
person who is drawing your blood know it before starting the test.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Preparation varies with the specific test performed.

## How the Test will Feel

Puncture of an artery may be more uncomfortable than puncture of a vein. This
is because arteries are deeper than veins. Arteries also have thicker walls
and have more nerves.

When the needle is inserted, there may be some discomfort or pain. Afterward,
there may be some throbbing.

## Why the Test Is Performed

Blood transports oxygen, nutrients, waste products, and other materials within
the body. Blood also helps control body temperature, fluids, and the balance
of chemicals.

Blood is made up of a fluid portion (plasma) and a cellular portion. Plasma
contains substances dissolved in the fluid. The cellular portion is made up
mainly of red blood cells, but it also includes white blood cells and
platelets.

Because blood has many functions, tests on the blood or its components may
give valuable clues to help providers diagnose many medical conditions.

Blood in the arteries (arterial blood) differs from blood in the veins (venous
blood) mainly in its content of dissolved gases. Testing arterial blood shows
the makeup of the blood before any of its contents are used by the body
tissues.

## Normal Results

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk to
your provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An arterial stick is done to get blood samples from arteries. Blood samples
are mainly taken to measure gases in the arteries. Abnormal results may point
to breathing problems or problems with the body's metabolism. Sometimes
arterial sticks are done to get blood culture or blood chemistry samples.

## Risks

There is little risk in having your blood taken. Veins and arteries vary in
size from one person to another and from one side of the body to the other.
Taking blood from some people may be more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

There is a slight risk for damage to nearby tissues when the blood is drawn.
Blood can be taken from lower-risk sites, and techniques can be used to limit
tissue damage.

## Alternative Names

Blood sample - arterial

## Images

    * ![Arterial blood sample](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9076t.jpg)Arterial blood sample

## References

Eiting E, Kim HT. Arterial puncture and cannulation. In: Roberts JR, Custalow
CB, Thomsen TW, eds. _Roberts and Hedges' Clinical Procedures in Emergency
Medicine and Acute Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 20.

Smith SF, Duell DJ, Martin BC, Gonzalez L, Aebersold M. Specimen collection.
In: Smith SF, Duell DJ, Martin BC, Gonzalez L, Aebersold M, eds. _Clinical
Nursing Skills: Basic to Advanced Skills_. 9th ed. New York, NY: Pearson;
2016:chap 20.

## Review Date 2/7/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bacterial
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Bacterialnfection_thumb.jpg)Bacterial
Infections _Read more_

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Blood _Read
more_

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Blood Disorders
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

