Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003644.htm    
                                Description: An RBC count is a blood test that measures how many red blood cells (RBCs) you have.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

RBC count

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003644.htm

# RBC count

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An RBC count is a blood test that measures how many red blood cells (RBCs) you
have.

RBCs contain hemoglobin, which carries oxygen. How much oxygen your body
tissues get depends on how many RBCs you have and how well they work.

![Red blood cell
production](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200028t.gif)Watch this
video about:Red blood cell production

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is necessary.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or a slight bruise. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

The RBC count is almost always part of a complete blood count (CBC) test.

The test can help diagnose different kinds of anemia (low number of RBCs) and
other conditions affecting red blood cells.

Other conditions that may require an RBC count are:

    * Disease that damages kidney blood vessels (Alport syndrome)
    * White blood cell cancer (Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia)
    * Disorder in which red blood cells break down earlier than normal (paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria)
    * Bone marrow disorder in which the marrow is replaced by scar tissue (myelofibrosis) 

## Normal Results

Normal RBC ranges are:

    * Male: 4.7 to 6.1 million cells per microliter (cells/mcL)
    * Female: 4.2 to 5.4 million cells/mcL

The ranges above are common measurements for results of these tests. Normal
value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs use
different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your health care
provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Higher than normal numbers of RBCs may be due to:

    * Cigarette smoking
    * Problem with heart's structure and function that is present at birth (congenital heart disease)
    * Failure of the right side of the heart (cor pulmonale)
    * Dehydration (for example, from severe diarrhea)
    * Kidney tumor (renal cell carcinoma)
    * Low blood oxygen level (hypoxia)
    * Scarring or thickening of the lungs (pulmonary fibrosis)
    * Bone marrow disease that causes abnormal increase in RBCs (polycythemia vera) 

Your RBC count will increase for several weeks when you are in a higher
altitude.

Drugs that can increase the RBC count include:

    * Gentamicin
    * Methyldopa 

Lower-than-normal numbers of RBCs may be due to:

    * Anemia 
    * Bleeding
    * Bone marrow failure (for example, from radiation, toxins, or tumor)
    * Deficiency of a hormone called erythropoietin (caused by kidney disease)
    * RBC destruction (hemolysis) due to transfusion, blood vessel injury, or other cause
    * Leukemia
    * Malnutrition
    * Bone marrow cancer called multiple myeloma
    * Too little iron, copper, folic acid, vitamin B6, or vitamin B12 in the diet
    * Too much water in the body (overhydration)
    * Pregnancy 

Drugs that can decrease the RBC count include:

    * Chemotherapy drugs
    * Chloramphenicol
    * Hydantoins
    * Quinidine 

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another and from one side of the body to the
other. Taking blood from some people may be more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Hematoma (blood buildup under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

## Alternative Names

Erythrocyte count; Red blood cell count; Anemia - RBC count

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test
    * ![Formed elements of blood](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19192t.jpg)Formed elements of blood
    * ![High blood pressure tests](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19232t.jpg)High blood pressure tests

## References

Bunn HF. Approach to the anemias. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 158.

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Red blood cell (RBC) â blood. In: Chernecky CC,
Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2013:961-962.

## Review Date 2/18/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![A photo of purple topped vacutainer blood collection
tubes](https://medlineplus.gov/images/purple-topped-vacutainer-blood-
collection-tubes-contain-the-anticoagulant-359x544_thumb.jpg)Blood Count Tests
_Read more_

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Blood Disorders
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

