Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000557.htm    
                                Description: Paroxysmal cold hemoglobinuria (PCH) is a rare blood disorder in which the body    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Paroxysmal cold hemoglobinuria (PCH)

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000557.htm

# Paroxysmal cold hemoglobinuria (PCH)

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Paroxysmal cold hemoglobinuria (PCH) is a rare blood disorder in which the
body's immune system produces antibodies that destroy red blood cells. It
occurs when the person is exposed to cold temperatures.

## Causes

PCH only occurs in the cold, and affects mainly the hands and feet. Antibodies
attach (bind) to red blood cells. This allows other proteins in the blood
(called complement) to also latch on. The antibodies destroy the red blood
cells as they move through the body. As the cells are destroyed, hemoglobin,
the part of red blood cells that carries oxygen, is released into the blood
and passed in the urine.

PCH has been linked to secondary syphilis, tertiary syphilis, and other viral
or bacterial infections. Sometimes the cause is unknown.

The disorder is rare.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

    * Chills
    * Fever
    * Back pain
    * Leg pain
    * Abdominal pain
    * Headache
    * General discomfort, uneasiness, or ill feeling (malaise)
    * Blood in the urine (red urine) 

## Exams and Tests

Laboratory tests can help diagnose this condition.

    * Bilirubin levels are high in blood and urine.
    * Complete blood count (CBC) shows anemia.
    * Coombs test is negative.
    * Donath-Landsteiner test is positive.
    * Lactate dehydrogenase level is high. 

## Treatment

Treating the underlying condition can help. For example, if PCH is caused by
syphilis, symptoms may get better when the syphilis is treated.

In some cases, medicines that suppress the immune system are used.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

People with this disease often get better quickly and do not have symptoms
between episodes. In most cases, the attacks end as soon as the damaged cells
stop moving through the body.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Continued attacks
    * Kidney failure
    * Severe anemia 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have symptoms of this disorder. The
provider can rule out other causes of the symptoms and decide whether you need
treatment.

## Prevention

People who have been diagnosed with this disease can prevent future attacks by
staying out of the cold.

## Alternative Names

PCH

## Images

    * ![Blood cells](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9123t.jpg)Blood cells

## References

Michel M. Autoimmune and intravascular hemolytic anemias. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 160.

Win N, Richards SJ. Acquired haemolytic anaemias. In: Bain BJ, Bates I, Laffan
MA, eds. _Dacie and Lewis Practical Haematology_. 12th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 13.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Anemia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Anemia_thumb.jpg)Anemia _Read more_

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Blood Disorders
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

