Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003423.htm    
                                Description: Venipuncture is the collection of blood from a vein. It is most often done for laboratory testing.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Venipuncture

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003423.htm

# Venipuncture

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Venipuncture is the collection of blood from a vein. It is most often done for
laboratory testing.

## How the Test is Performed

Most of the time, blood is drawn from a vein located onÂ the inside of the
elbow or the back of the hand.

    * The site is cleaned with germ-killing medicine (antiseptic).
    * An elastic band is put around the upper arm to apply pressure to the area. This makes the vein swell with blood.
    * A needle is inserted into the vein.
    * The blood collects into an airtight vial or tube attached to the needle.
    * The elastic band is removed from your arm.
    * The needle is taken out and the spot is covered with a bandage to stop bleeding. 

In infants or young children, a sharp tool called a lancet may be used to
puncture the skin and make it bleed. The blood collects onto a slide or test
strip. A bandage may be placed over the area if there is any bleeding.

## How to Prepare for the Test

The steps you need to take before the test will depend on the kind of blood
test you are having. Many tests do not require special steps.

In some cases, your health care provider will tell you if you need to stop
taking any medicines before you have this test or if you need to be fasting.
Do not stop or change your medicines without talking to your provider first.

## How the Test will Feel

You may feel slight pain or a sting when the needle is inserted. You may also
feel some throbbing at the site after the blood is drawn.

## Why the Test is Performed

Blood is made up of two parts:

    * Fluid (plasma or serum) 
    * Cells 

Plasma is the fluid part of the blood in the bloodstream that contains
substances such as glucose, electrolytes, proteins, and water. Serum is the
fluid part that remains after the blood is allowed to clot in a test tube.

Cells in the blood include red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets.

Blood helps move oxygen, nutrients, waste products, and other materials
through the body. It helps control body temperature, fluid balance, and the
body's acid-base balance.

Tests on blood or parts of blood may give your provider important clues about
your health.

## Normal Results

Normal results vary with the specific test.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results vary with the specific test.

## Alternative Names

Blood-draw; Phlebotomy

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Dean AJ, Lee DC. Bedside laboratory and microbiologic procedures. In: Roberts
JR, Custalow CB, Thomsen TW, eds. _Roberts and Hedges' Clinical Procedures in
Emergency Medicine and Acute Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 67.

Haverstick DM, Jones PM. Specimen collection and processing. In: Rifai N, ed.
_Tietz Textbook of Clinical Chemistry and Molecular Diagnostics_. 6th ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2018:chap 4.

## Review Date 4/26/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Blood _Read
more_

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Blood Disorders
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

