Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003344.htm    
                                Description: The Coombs test looks for antibodies that may stick to your red blood cells and cause red blood cells to die too early.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Coombs test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003344.htm

# Coombs test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The Coombs test looks for antibodies that may stick to your red blood cells
and cause red blood cells to die too early.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is necessary for this test.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or slight bruising. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

There are two types of the Coombs test:

    * Direct
    * Indirect

The direct Coombs test is used to detect antibodies that are stuck to the
surface of red blood cells. Many diseases and drugs can cause this to happen.
These antibodies sometimes destroy red blood cells and cause anemia. Your
health care provider may recommend this test if you have signs or symptoms of
anemia or jaundice (yellowing of the skin or eyes).

The indirect Coombs test looks for antibodies that are floating in the blood.
These antibodies could act against certain red blood cells. This test is most
often done to determine if you may have a reaction to a blood transfusion.

## Normal Results

A normal result is called a negative result. It means there was no clumping of
cells and you have no antibodies to red blood cells.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your provider
about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An abnormal (positive) direct Coombs test means you have antibodies that act
against your red blood cells. This may be due to:

    * AutoimmuneÂ hemolytic anemia
    * Chronic lymphocytic leukemia or similar disorder
    * Blood disease in newborns calledÂ erythroblastosis fetalis (also called hemolytic disease of the newborn)
    * Infectious mononucleosis
    * Mycoplasma infection
    * Syphilis
    * Systemic lupus erythematosus
    * Transfusion reaction, such as one due to improperly matched units of blood 

The test result may also be abnormal without any clear cause, especially among
the older people.

An abnormal (positive) indirect Coombs test means you have antibodies that
will act against red blood cells that your body views as foreign. This may
suggest:

    * Erythroblastosis fetalis
    * Incompatible blood match (when used in blood banks) 

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another and from one side of the body to the
other. Taking blood from some people may be more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Hematoma (blood buildup under the skin)
    * Excessive bleeding  

    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

## Alternative Names

Direct antiglobulin test; Indirect antiglobulin test; Anemia - hemolytic

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Coombs' test, direct (direct antiglobulin test) â
serum. In: Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic
Procedures_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2013:380-381.

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Coombs' test, indirect (indirect antiglobulin test)
â serum. In: Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic
Procedures_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2013:382.

Michel M. Autoimmune and intravascular hemolytic anemias. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 160.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical ncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Blood Disorders
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

