Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003653.htm    
                                Description: Partial thromboplastin time (PTT) is a blood test that looks at how long it takes for blood to clot. It can help tell if you have a bleeding problem or if your blood does not clot properly.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Partial thromboplastin time (PTT)

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003653.htm

# Partial thromboplastin time (PTT)

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Partial thromboplastin time (PTT) is a blood test that looks at how long it
takes for blood to clot. It can help tell if you have a bleeding problem or if
your blood does not clot properly.

A related blood test is prothrombin time (PT).

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed. If you are taking any blood-thinning medicines, you
will be watched for signs of bleeding.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Your health care provider may tell you to temporarily stop taking medicines
that may affect the test results. Be sure to tell your provider about all the
medicines you take. Also tell your provider about any herbal remedies you
take.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or slight bruising. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

You may need this test if you have problems with bleeding or your blood does
not clot properly. When you bleed, a series of actions involving many
different proteins (clotting factors) take place in the body that help the
blood clot. This is called the coagulation cascade. The PTT test looks at some
of the proteins or factors involved in this process and measures their ability
to help blood clot.

The test may also be used to monitor patients who are taking heparin, a blood
thinner.

A PTT test is usually done with other tests, such as the prothrombin test.

## Normal Results

In general, clotting should occur within 25 to 35 seconds. If the person is
taking blood thinners, clotting takes up to 2 Â½ times longer.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different labs. Some labs use
different measurements or may test different specimens. Talk to your provider
about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An abnormal (too long) PTT result may also be due to:

    * Bleeding disorders, a group of conditions in which there is a problem with the body's blood clotting process
    * Disorder in which the proteins that control blood clotting become over active (disseminated intravascular coagulation) 
    * Liver disease
    * Difficulty absorbing nutrients from food (malabsorption)
    * Low level of vitamin K

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another, and from one side of the body to the
other. Obtaining a blood sample from some people may be more difficult than
from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

This test is often done on people who may have bleeding problems. Their risk
of bleeding is slightly higher than it is for people without bleeding
problems.

## Alternative Names

APTT; PTT; Activated partial thromboplastin time

## Patient Instructions

    * Deep vein thrombosis - discharge

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Activated partial thromboplastin substitution test -
diagnostic. In: Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic
Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:101-103.

Ortel TL. Antithrombotic therapy. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's
Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis,
MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 42.

## Review Date 1/29/2019

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Bleeding
Disorders _Read more_

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Blood Clots
_Read more_

![Hemophilia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hemophilia_thumb.jpg)Hemophilia
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

