Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/coagulation-factor-tests/    
                                Description: A coagulation factor test checks the function of certain proteins in your blood. These proteins help your blood to clot after injury. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Coagulation Factor Tests

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/coagulation-factor-tests/

# Coagulation Factor Tests

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What are coagulation factor tests?

Coagulation factors are proteins in the blood that help control bleeding. You
have several different coagulation factors in your blood. When you get a cut
or other injury that causes bleeding, your coagulation factors work together
to form a blood clot. The clot stops you from losing too much blood. This
process is called the coagulation cascade.

Coagulation factor tests are blood tests that check the function of one or
more of your coagulation factors. Coagulation factors are known by Roman
numerals (I, II VIII, etc.) or by name (fibrinogen, prothrombin, hemophilia A,
etc.). If any of your factors are missing or defective, it can lead to heavy,
uncontrolled bleeding after an injury.

Other names: blood clotting factors, factor assays, factor assay by number
(Factor I, Factor II, Factor VIII, etc.) or by name (fibrinogen, prothrombin,
hemophilia A, hemophilia B, etc.)

## What is it used for?

A coagulation factor test is used to find out if you have a problem with any
of your coagulation factors. If a problem is found, you likely have a
condition known as a bleeding disorder. There are different types of bleeding
disorders. Bleeding disorders are very rare. The most well-known bleeding
disorder is hemophilia. Hemophilia is caused when coagulation factors VIII or
IX are missing or defective.

You may be tested for one or more factors at a time.

## Why do I need a coagulation factor test?

You may need this test if you have a family history of bleeding disorders.
Most bleeding disorders are inherited. That means it is passed down from one
or both of your parents.

You may also need this test if your health care provider thinks you have a
bleeding disorder that is _not_ inherited. Although uncommon, other causes of
bleeding disorders include:

    * Liver disease
    * Vitamin K deficiency
    * Blood-thinning medicines

In addition, you may need a coagulation factor test if you have symptoms of a
bleeding disorder. These include:

    * Heavy bleeding after an injury
    * Easy bruising
    * Swelling
    * Pain and stiffness
    * An unexplained blood clot. In some bleeding disorders, the blood clots too much, rather than too little. This can be dangerous, because when a blood clot travels in your body, it can cause a heart attack, stroke, or other life-threatening conditions.

## What happens during a coagulation factor test?

A health care professional will take a blood sample from a vein in your arm,
using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a small amount of blood
will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel a little sting when
the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than five minutes

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You don't need any special preparations for a coagulation factor test.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

## What do the results mean?

If your results show one of your coagulation factors is missing or not working
right, you probably have some kind of bleeding disorder. The type of disorder
depends on which factor is affected. While there is no cure for inherited
bleeding disorders, there are treatments available that can manage your
condition.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## References

    1. American Heart Association [Internet]. Dallas: American Heart Association Inc.; c2017. What is Excessive Blood Clotting (Hypercoagulation)? [updated 2015 Nov 30; cited 2017 Oct 30]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: http://www.heart.org/HEARTORG/Conditions/More/What-Is-Excessive-Blood-Clotting-Hypercoagulation_UCM_448768_Article.jsp
    2. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Hemophilia: Facts [updated 2017 Mar 2; cited 2017 Oct 30]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/hemophilia/facts.html
    3. Hinkle J, Cheever K. Brunner & Suddarth's Handbook of Laboratory and Diagnostic Tests. 2nd Ed, Kindle. Philadelphia: Wolters Kluwer Health, Lippincott Williams & Wilkins; c2014. Coagulation Factor Assay; 156â7 p.
    4. Indiana Hemophilia & Thrombosis Center [Internet]. Indianapolis: Indiana Hemophilia & Thrombosis Center Inc.; c2011â2012. Bleeding Disorders [cited 2017 Oct 30]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: http://www.ihtc.org/patient/blood-disorders/bleeding-disorders
    5. Johns Hopkins Medicine [Internet]. Johns Hopkins Medicine; Health Library: Coagulation Disorders [cited 2017 Oct 30]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.hopkinsmedicine.org/healthlibrary/conditions/adult/pediatrics/coagulation_disorders_22,coagulationdisorders
    6. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Coagulation Factors: The Test [updated 2016 Sep 16; cited 2017 Oct 30]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/coagulation-factors/tab/test
    7. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Coagulation Factors: The Test Sample [updated 2016 Sep 16; cited 2017 Oct 30]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/coagulation-factors/tab/sample
    8. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co., Inc.; c2017. Overview of Blood Clotting Disorders [cited 2017 Oct 30]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: http://www.merckmanuals.com/home/blood-disorders/bleeding-due-to-clotting-disorders/overview-of-blood-clotting-disorders
    9. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What Are the Risks of Blood Tests? [updated 2012 Jan 6; cited 2017 Oct 30]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health/health-topics/topics/bdt/risks
    10. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What To Expect with Blood Tests [updated 2012 Jan 6; cited 2017 Oct 30; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health/health-topics/topics/bdt/with
    11. National Hemophilia Foundation [Internet]. New York: National Hemophilia Foundation; c2017. Other Factor Deficiencies [cited 2017 Oct 30]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.hemophilia.org/Bleeding-Disorders/Types-of-Bleeding-Disorders/Other-Factor-Deficiencies
    12. National Hemophilia Foundation [Internet]. New York: National Hemophilia Foundation; c2017. What is a Bleeding Disorder [cited 2017 Oct 30]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.hemophilia.org/Bleeding-Disorders/What-is-a-Bleeding-Disorder
    13. Riley Children's Health [Internet]. Carmel (IN): Riley Hospital for Children at Indiana University Health; c2017. Coagulation Disorders [cited 2017 Oct 30]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.rileychildrens.org/health-info/coagulation-disorders
    14. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. University of Florida; c2017. Factor X deficiency: Overview [updated 2017 Oct 30; cited 2017 Oct 30]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/factor-x-deficiency
    15. U of L Physicians [Internet]: Louisville (KY): University of Louisville Physicians; c2013. Bleeding disorders [cited 2017 Oct 30]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: http://uoflphysiciansse3.adam.com/content.aspx?productId=117&pid;=1&gid;=001304

## Related Health Topics

    * Bleeding Disorders
    * Genetic Disorders
    * Hemophilia

## Related Lab Test Information

    * How to Understand Your Lab Results

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 24 February 2020 Page last reviewed: 12 March 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

