Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000539.htm    
                                Description: Hemophilia B is a hereditary bleeding disorder caused by a lack of blood clotting factor IX. Without enough factor IX, the blood cannot clot properly to control bleeding.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hemophilia B

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000539.htm

# Hemophilia B

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hemophilia B is a hereditary bleeding disorder caused by a lack of blood
clotting factor IX. Without enough factor IX, the blood cannot clot properly
to control bleeding.

## Causes

When you bleed, a series of reactions take place in the body that helps blood
clots form. This process is called the coagulation cascade. It involves
special proteins called coagulation, or clotting factors. You may have a
higher chance of excess bleeding if one or more of these factors are missing
or are not functioning like they should.

Factor IX (nine) is one such coagulation factor. Hemophilia B is the result of
the body not making enough factor IX. Hemophilia B is caused by an inherited
X-linked recessive trait, with the defective gene located on the X chromosome.

Females have two copies of the X chromosome. If the factor IX gene on one
chromosome does not work, the gene on the other chromosome can do the job of
making enough factor IX.

Males have only one X chromosome. If the factor IX gene is missing on a boy's
X chromosome, he will have Hemophilia B. For this reason, most people with
hemophilia B are male.

If a woman has a defective factor IX gene, she is considered a carrier. This
means the defective gene can be passed down to her children. Boys born to such
women have a 50% chance of having hemophilia B. Their daughters have a 50%
chance of being a carrier.

All female children of men with hemophilia carry the defective gene.

Risk factors for hemophilia B include:

    * Family history of bleeding
    * Being male 

## Symptoms

Severity of symptoms can vary. Prolonged bleeding is the main symptom. It is
often first seen when the infant is circumcised. Other bleeding problems
usually show up when the infant starts crawling and walking.

Mild cases may go unnoticed until later in life. Symptoms may first occur
after surgery or injury. Internal bleeding may occur anywhere.

Symptoms may include:

    * Bleeding into joints with associated pain and swelling
    * Blood in the urine or stool
    * Bruising
    * Gastrointestinal tract and urinary tract bleeding
    * Nosebleeds
    * Prolonged bleeding from cuts, tooth extraction, and surgery
    * Bleeding that starts without cause 

## Exams and Tests

If you are the first person in the family to have a suspected bleeding
disorder, your health care provider will order a series of tests called a
coagulation study. Once the specific defect has been identified, other people
in your family will need tests to diagnose the disorder.

Tests to diagnose hemophilia B include:

    * Partial thromboplastin timeÂ (PTT)
    * Prothrombin time
    * Bleeding time
    * Fibrinogen level
    * Serum factor IX activity

## Treatment

Treatment includes replacing the missing clotting factor. You will receive
factor IX concentrates. How much you get depends on:

    * Severity of bleeding
    * Site of bleeding
    * Your weight and height 

To prevent a bleeding crisis, people with hemophilia and their families can be
taught to give factor IX concentrates at home at the first signs of bleeding.
People with severe forms of the disease may need regular, preventive
infusions.

If you have severe hemophilia, you may also need to take factor IX concentrate
before surgery or certain types of dental work.

You should get the hepatitis B vaccine. People with hemophilia are more likely
to get hepatitis B because they may receive blood products.

Some people with hemophilia B develop antibodies to factor IX. These
antibodies are called inhibitors. The inhibitors attack factor IX so that it
no longer works. In such cases, a man-made clotting factor called VIIa can be
given.

## Support Groups

You can ease the stress of illness by joining a hemophilia support group.
Sharing with others who have common experiences and problems can help you not
feel alone.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

With treatment, most people with hemophilia B are able to lead a fairly normal
life.

If you have hemophilia B, you should have regular checkups with a
hematologist.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Long-term joint problems, which may require a joint replacement
    * Bleeding in the brain (intracerebral hemorrhage)
    * Thrombosis due to treatment 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * Symptoms of a bleeding disorder develop
    * A family member has been diagnosed with hemophilia B
    * If you have hemophilia B, and you plan to have children; genetic counseling is available

## Prevention

Genetic counseling may be recommended. Testing can identify women and girls
who carry the hemophilia gene.

Testing can be done during pregnancy on a baby that is in the mother's womb.

## Alternative Names

Christmas disease; Factor IX hemophilia; Bleeding disorder - hemophilia B

## Images

    * ![X-linked recessive genetic defects - how boys are affected](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19095t.jpg)X-linked recessive genetic defects - how boys are affected
    * ![X-linked recessive genetic defects - how girls are affected](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19096t.jpg)X-linked recessive genetic defects - how girls are affected
    * ![X-linked recessive genetic defects](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19097t.jpg)X-linked recessive genetic defects
    * ![Blood cells](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9123t.jpg)Blood cells
    * ![Blood clots](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9326t.jpg)Blood clots

## References

Carcao M, Moorehead P, Lillicrap D. Hemophilia A and B. In: Hoffman R, Benz
EJ, Silberstein LE, et al, eds. _Hematology: Basic Principles and Practice_.
7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 135.

Scott JP, Flood VH. Hereditary clotting factor deficiencies (bleeding
disorders). In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson
Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 476.

Srivastava A, Brewer AK, Mauser-Bunschoten EP, et al; Treatment Guidelines
Working Group on Behalf of The World Federation Of Hemophilia. Guidelines for
the management of hemophilia. _Haemophilia_. 2013;19(1):e1-e47. PMID: 22776238
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22776238.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Hemophilia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hemophilia_thumb.jpg)Hemophilia
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

