Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003678.htm    
                                Description: The factor VIII assay is a blood test to measure the activity of factor VIII. This is one of the proteins in the body that helps the blood clot.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Factor VIII assay

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003678.htm

# Factor VIII assay

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The factor VIII assay is a blood test to measure the activity of factor VIII.
This is one of the proteins in the body that helps the blood clot.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is needed.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or slight bruising. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is used to find the cause of too much bleeding (decreased blood
clotting). Or, it may be ordered if a family member is known to have
hemophilia A. The test may also be done to see how well treatment for
hemophilia A is working.

## Normal Results

A normal value is 50% to 200% of the laboratory control or reference value.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or may test different samples. Talk to your health
care provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Decreased factor VIII activity may be due to:

    * Hemophilia AÂ (a bleeding disorder caused by a lack of blood clotting factor VIII)
    * Disorder in which the proteins that control blood clotting become over active disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC)
    * Presence of a Factor VIII inhibitor (antibody)
    * Von Willebrand disease (another type of bleeding disorder) 

Increased activity may be due to:

    * Older age
    * Diabetes
    * Liver disease
    * Inflammation
    * Pregnancy
    * Obesity 

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another, and from one side of the body to the
other. Obtaining a blood sample from some people may be more difficult than
from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

This test is most often done on people who have bleeding problems. The risk of
too much bleeding is slightly greater for people with bleeding problems than
others.

## Alternative Names

Plasma factor VIII antigen; Antihemophilia factor; AHF

## References

Carcao M, Moorehead P, Lillicrap D. Hemophilia A and B. In: Hoffman R, Benz
EJ, Silberstein LE, et al, eds. _Hematology: Basic Principles and Practice_.
7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 135.

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Factor VIII (antihemophilia factor, AHF)Â - blood.
In: Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic
Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:504-505.

Napolitano M, Schmaier AH, Kessler CM. Coagulation and fibrinolysis. In:
McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by
Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 39.

## Review Date 1/29/2019

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hemophilia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hemophilia_thumb.jpg)Hemophilia
_Read more_

![Platelet
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PlateletDisorders_thumb.jpg)Platelet
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

