Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000537.htm    
                                Description: Hemophilia refers to a group of bleeding disorders in which blood clotting takes a long time.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hemophilia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000537.htm

# Hemophilia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hemophilia refers to a group of bleeding disorders in which blood clotting
takes a long time.

There are two forms of hemophilia:

    * Hemophilia A (classic hemophilia, or factor VIII deficiency)
    * Hemophilia B (Christmas disease, or factor IX deficiency)

## Causes

When you bleed, a series of reactions take place in the body that helps blood
clots form. This process is called the coagulation cascade. It involves
special proteins called coagulation, or clotting factors. You may have a
higher chance of excess bleeding if one or more of these factors are missing
or aren't functioning like they should.

Hemophilia is caused by the lack of clotting factor VIII or IX in the blood.
In most cases, hemophilia is passed down through families (inherited). Most of
the time, it is passed to male children.

## Symptoms

The main symptom of hemophilia is bleeding. Mild cases may not be detected
until later in life, after excessive bleeding following surgery or an injury.

In the worst cases, bleeding occurs for no reason. Internal bleeding may occur
anywhere and bleeding into joints is common.

## Exams and Tests

Most often, hemophilia is diagnosed after a person has an abnormal bleeding
episode. It can also be diagnosed by a blood test done to detect the problem,
if other family members have the condition.

## Treatment

The most common treatment is to replace the missing clotting factor in the
blood through a vein (intravenous infusions).

Special care during surgery needs to be taken if you have this bleeding
disorder. So, be sure to tell your surgeon that you have this disorder.

It is also very important to share information about your disorder with blood
relatives as they may also be affected.

## Support Groups

Joining a support group where members share common issues can relieve the
stress of a long-term (chronic) disease.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most people with hemophilia are able to do normal activities. But some people
have bleeding into the joints, which may limit their activity.

A small number of people with hemophilia may die of severe bleeding.

## Alternative Names

Hemophilia A; Classic hemophilia; Factor VIII deficiency; Hemophilia B;
Christmas disease; Factor IX deficiency; Bleeding disorder - hemophilia

## Images

    * ![Blood clots](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9326t.jpg)Blood clots

## References

Carcao M, Moorehead P, Lillicrap D. Hemophilia A and B. In: Hoffman R, Benz
EJ, Silberstein LE, et al, eds. _Hematology: Basic Principles and Practice_.
7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 135.

Hall JE. Hemostasis and blood coagulation. In: Hall JE, ed. _Guyton and Hall
Textbook of Medical Physiology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 37.

Ragni MV. Hemorrhagic disorders: coagulation factor deficiencies. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. Goldman-Cecil Medicine. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 174.

## Review Date 1/29/2019

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hemophilia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hemophilia_thumb.jpg)Hemophilia
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

