Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/partial-thromboplastin-time-ptt-test/    
                                Description: A partial thromboplastin time (PTT) test measures the time it takes for a blood clot to form in a blood sample. It helps find out if you have a problem with your coagulation factors, proteins that work together to form blood clots. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Partial Thromboplastin Time (PTT) Test

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/partial-thromboplastin-
time-ptt-test/

# Partial Thromboplastin Time (PTT) Test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a PTT (partial thromboplastin time) test?

A partial thromboplastin time (PTT) test measures the time it takes for a
blood clot to form. Normally, when you get a cut or injury that causes
bleeding, proteins in your blood called coagulation factors work together to
form a blood clot. The clot stops you from losing too much blood.

You have several coagulation factors in your blood. If any factors are missing
or defective, it can take longer than normal for blood to clot. In some cases,
this causes heavy, uncontrolled bleeding. A PTT test checks the function of
specific coagulation factors. These include factors known as factor VIII,
factor IX, factor X1, and factor XII.

Other names: activated partial thromboplastin time, aPTT, intrinsic pathway
coagulation factor profile

## What is it used for?

A PTT test is used to:

    * Check the function of specific coagulation factors. If any of these factors are missing or defective, it can mean you have a bleeding disorder. Bleeding disorders are a group of rare conditions in which blood doesn't clot normally. The most well-known bleeding disorder is hemophilia.
    * Find out if there is another reason for excessive bleeding or other clotting problems. These include certain autoimmune diseases that cause the immune system to attack coagulation factors.
    * Monitor people taking heparin, a type of medicine that prevents clotting. In some bleeding disorders, the blood clots too much, rather than too little. This can cause heart attacks, strokes, and other life-threatening conditions. But taking too much heparin can cause excessive and dangerous bleeding.

## Why do I need a PTT test?

You may need a PTT test if you:

    * Have unexplained heavy bleeding
    * Bruise easily
    * Have a blood clot in a vein or artery
    * Have liver disease, which can sometimes cause problems with blood clotting
    * Will be getting surgery. Surgery can cause blood loss, so it's important to know if you have a clotting problem.
    * Have had multiple miscarriages
    * Are taking heparin

## What happens during a PTT test?

A health care professional will take a blood sample from a vein in your arm,
using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a small amount of blood
will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel a little sting when
the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than five minutes.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You don't need any special preparations for a PTT test.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

## What do the results mean?

Your PTT test results will show how much time it took for your blood to clot.
Results are usually given as a number of seconds. If your results show that
your blood took a longer-than-normal time to clot, it may mean you have:

    * A bleeding disorder, such as hemophilia or von Willebrand disease. Von Willebrand disease is the most common bleeding disorder, but it usually causes milder symptoms than other bleeding disorders.
    * Liver disease
    * Antiphospholipid antibody syndrome or lupus anticoagulant syndrome. These are autoimmune diseases that cause your immune system to attack your coagulation factors.
    * Vitamin K deficiency. Vitamin K plays an important role in forming coagulation factors.

If you are taking heparin, your results can help show whether you are taking
the right dose. You will probably be tested on a regular basis to make sure
your dosage stays at the right level.

If you are diagnosed with a bleeding disorder, talk to your health care
provider. While there is no cure for most bleeding disorders, there are
treatments available that can help manage your condition.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about a PTT test?

A PTT test is often ordered along with another blood test called prothrombin
time. A prothrombin time test is another way to measure clotting ability.

## References

    1. American Society of Hematology [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Society of Hematology; c2018. Bleeding Disorders [cited 2018 Aug 26]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: http://www.hematology.org/Patients/Bleeding.aspx
    2. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Hemophilia: Diagnosis [updated 2011 Sep 13; cited 2018 Aug 26]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/hemophilia/diagnosis.html
    3. Hinkle J, Cheever K. Brunner & Suddarth's Handbook of Laboratory and Diagnostic Tests. 2nd Ed, Kindle. Philadelphia: Wolters Kluwer Health, Lippincott Williams & Wilkins; c2014. Partial Thromboplastin Time (PTT); 400 p.
    4. Indiana Hemophilia & Thrombosis Center [Internet]. Indianapolis: Indiana Hemophilia & Thrombosis Center Inc.; c2011â2012. Bleeding Disorders [cited 2018 Aug 26]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: http://www.ihtc.org/patient/blood-disorders/bleeding-disorders
    5. Kids Health from Nemours [Internet]. Jacksonville (FL): The Nemours Foundation; c1995â2018. Blood Test: Partial Thromboplastin Time (PTT) [cited 2018 Aug 26]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://kidshealth.org/en/parents/test-ptt.html?ref=search&WT.ac=msh-p-dtop-en-search-cl
    6. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.; American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. Partial Thromboplastin Time [updated 2018 Mar 27; cited 2018 Aug 26]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/partial-thromboplastin-time-ptt-aptt
    7. Mayo Clinic: Mayo Medical Laboratories [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1995â2018. Test ID: ATPTT: Activated Partial Thromboplastin Time (APTT), Plasma: Clinical and Interpretive [cited 2018 Aug 26]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayomedicallaboratories.com/test-catalog/Clinical+and+Interpretive/40935
    8. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Blood Tests [cited 2018 Aug 26]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    9. Riley Children's Health [Internet]. Indianapolis: Riley Hospital for Children at Indiana University Health; c2018. Coagulation Disorders [cited 2018 Aug 26]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.rileychildrens.org/health-info/coagulation-disorders
    10. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida; c2018. Partial thromboplastin time (PTT): Overview [updated 2018 Aug 26; cited 2018 Aug 26]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/partial-thromboplastin-time-ptt
    11. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2018. Health Encyclopedia: Activated Partial Thromboplastin Clotting Time [cited 2018 Aug 26]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid=aptt
    12. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Health Information: Partial Thromboplastin Time: Results [updated 2017 Oct 5; cited 2018 Aug 26]; [about 8 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/partial-thromboplastin-time/hw203152.html#hw203179
    13. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Health Information: Partial Thromboplastin Time: Test Overview [updated 2017 Oct 5; cited 2018 Aug 26]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/partial-thromboplastin-time/hw203152.html
    14. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Health Information: Partial Thromboplastin Time: Why It is Done [updated 2017 Oct 5; cited 2018 Aug 26]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/partial-thromboplastin-time/hw203152.html#hw203160
    15. WFH: World Federation of Hemophilia [Internet]. Montreal Quebec, Canada: World Federation of Hemophilia; c2018. What is von Willebrand Disease (VWD) [updated 2018 June; cited 2018 Aug 26]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.wfh.org/en/page.aspx?pid=673

## Related Health Topics

    * Bleeding Disorders
    * Blood Clots
    * Blood Thinners
    * Genetic Disorders
    * Hemophilia
    * Liver Diseases

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Coagulation Factor Tests
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 26 February 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

