Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/breast-biopsy/    
                                Description: A breast biopsy is a test that can confirm or rule out breast cancer. It&#39;s used if other breast tests or a physical exam show there might be a chance of breast cancer. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Breast Biopsy

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/breast-biopsy/

# Breast Biopsy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a breast biopsy?

A breast biopsy is a procedure that removes a small sample of breast tissue
for testing. The tissue is looked at under a microscope to check for breast
cancer. There are different ways to do a breast biopsy procedure. One method
uses a special needle to remove tissue. Another method removes tissue in a
minor, outpatient surgery.

A breast biopsy can determine whether you have breast cancer. But most women
who have a breast biopsy do not have cancer.

Other names: core needle biopsy; core biopsy, breast; fine-needle aspiration;
open surgery biopsy

## What is it used for?

A breast biopsy is used to confirm or rule out breast cancer. It is done after
other breast tests, such as a mammogram, or a physical breast exam, show there
might be a chance of breast cancer.

## Why do I need a breast biopsy?

You may need a breast biopsy if:

    * You or your health care provider felt a lump in your breast
    * Your mammogram, MRI, or ultrasound tests show a lump, shadow, or other area of concern
    * You have changes in your nipple, such as bloody discharge

If your health care provider has ordered a breast biopsy, it does not
necessarily mean you have breast cancer. The majority of breast lumps that are
tested are benign, which means noncancerous.

## What happens during a breast biopsy?

There are three main types of breast biopsy procedures:

    * **Fine needle aspiration biopsy,** which uses a very thin needle to remove a sample of breast cells or fluid
    * **Core needle biopsy,** which uses a larger needle to remove a sample
    * **Surgical biopsy,** which removes a sample in a minor, outpatient procedure

**Fine needle aspiration** and **core needle biopsies** usually include the
following steps.

    * You will lay on your side or sit on an exam table.
    * A health care provider will clean the biopsy site and inject it with an anesthetic, so you won't feel any pain during the procedure.
    * Once the area is numb, the provider will insert either a fine aspiration needle or core biopsy needle into the biopsy site and remove a sample of tissue or fluid.
    * You may feel a little pressure when the sample is withdrawn.
    * Pressure will be applied to the biopsy site until the bleeding stops.
    * Your provider will apply a sterile bandage at the biopsy site.

**In a surgical biopsy,** a surgeon will make a small cut in your skin to
remove all or part of a breast lump. A surgical biopsy is sometimes done if
the lump can't be reached with a needle biopsy. Surgical biopsies usually
include the following steps.

    * You will lie on an operating table. An IV (intravenous line) may be placed in your arm or hand.
    * You may be given medicine, called a sedative, to help you relax.
    * You will be given local or general anesthesia, so you won't feel pain during the procedure. 
      * For local anesthesia, a health care provider will inject the biopsy site with medicine to numb the area.
      * For general anesthesia, a specialist called an anesthesiologist will give you medicine, so you will be unconscious during the procedure.
    * the biopsy area is numb or you are unconscious, the surgeon will make a small cut into the breast and remove part or all of a lump. Some tissue around the lump may also be removed.
    * The cut in your skin will be closed with stitches or adhesive strips.

The type of biopsy you have will depend on different factors, including the
size of the lump and what the lump or area of concern looks like on a breast
test.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You won't need any special preparations if you are getting local anesthesia
(numbing of the biopsy site). If you are getting general anesthesia, you will
probably need to fast (not eat or drink) for several hours before surgery.
Your surgeon will give you more specific instructions. Also, if you are
getting a sedative or general anesthesia, be sure to arrange for someone to
drive you home. You may be groggy and confused after you wake up from the
procedure.

## Are there any risks to the test?

You may have a little bruising or bleeding at the biopsy site. Sometimes the
site gets infected. If that happens, you will be treated with antibiotics. A
surgical biopsy may cause some additional pain and discomfort. Your health
care provider may recommend or prescribe medicine to help you feel better.

## What do the results mean?

It may take several days to a week to get your results. Typical results may
show:

    * **Normal.** No cancer or abnormal cells were found.
    * **Abnormal, but benign.** These show breast changes that are not cancer. These include calcium deposits and cysts. Sometimes more testing and/or follow-up treatment may be needed.
    * **Cancer cells found.** Your results will include information about the cancer to help you and your health care provider develop a treatment plan that best meets your needs. You will probably be referred to a provider who specializes in breast cancer treatment.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about a breast biopsy?

In the United States, tens of thousands of women and hundreds of men die of
breast cancer every year. A breast biopsy, when appropriate, can help find
breast cancer at an early stage, when it's most treatable. If breast cancer is
found early, when it is confined to the breast only, the five-year survival
rate is 99 percent. This means, on average, that 99 out of 100 people with
breast cancer that was detected early are still alive 5 years after being
diagnosed. If you have questions about breast cancer screening, such as
mammograms or a breast biopsy, talk to your health care provider.

## References

    1. Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality [Internet]. Rockville (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Having a Breast Biopsy; 2016 May 26 [cited 2018 Mar 14]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://effectivehealthcare.ahrq.gov/topics/breast-biopsy-update/consumer
    2. American Cancer Society [Internet]. Atlanta: American Cancer Society Inc.; c2018. Breast Biopsy [updated 2017 Oct 9; cited 2018 Mar 14]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.org/cancer/breast-cancer/screening-tests-and-early-detection/breast-biopsy.html
    3. American Cancer Society [Internet]. Atlanta: American Cancer Society Inc.; c2018. Breast Cancer Survival Rates; [updated 2017 Dec20; cited 2018 Mar 25]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.org/cancer/breast-cancer/understanding-a-breast-cancer-diagnosis/breast-cancer-survival-rates.html
    4. American Society of Clinical Oncology [Internet]. American Society of Clinical Oncology; 2005â2018. Breast Cancer: Statistics; 2017 Apr [cited 2018 Mar 14]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.net/cancer-types/breast-cancer/statistics
    5. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; How is Breast Cancer Diagnosed? [updated 2017 Sep 27; cited 2018 Mar 14]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/cancer/breast/basic_info/diagnosis.htm
    6. Hinkle J, Cheever K. Brunner & Suddarth's Handbook of Laboratory and Diagnostic Tests. 2nd Ed, Kindle. Philadelphia: Wolters Kluwer Health, Lippincott Williams & Wilkins; c2014. Breast Biopsy; 107 p.
    7. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2018. Breast Biopsy; 2017 Dec 30 [cited 2018 Mar 14]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/tests-procedures/breast-biopsy/about/pac-20384812
    8. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2018. General Anesthesia; 2017 Dec 29 [cited 2018 Mar 14]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/tests-procedures/anesthesia/about/pac-20384568
    9. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co., Inc.; c2018. Breast Cancer [cited 2018 Mar 14]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.merckmanuals.com/home/women-s-health-issues/breast-disorders/breast-cancer#v805570
    10. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Diagnosing Breast Changes with a Biopsy [cited 2018 Mar 14]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/types/breast/breast-changes/breast-biopsy.pdf
    11. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2018. Health Encyclopedia: Breast Biopsy [cited 2018 Mar 14]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=92&contentid;=P07763
    12. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Breast Biopsy: How to Prepare [updated 2017 May 3; cited 2018 Mar 14]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/breast-biopsy/aa10755.html#aa10767
    13. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Breast Biopsy: Results [updated 2017 May 3; cited 2018 Mar 14]; [about 8 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/breast-biopsy/aa10755.html#aa10797
    14. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Breast Biopsy: Risks [updated 2017 May 3; cited 2018 Mar 14]; [about 7 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/breast-biopsy/aa10755.html#aa10794
    15. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Breast Biopsy: Test Overview [updated 2017 May 3; cited 2018 Mar 14]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/breast-biopsy/aa10755.html
    16. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Breast Biopsy: Why It is Done [updated 2017 May 3; cited 2018 Mar 14]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/breast-biopsy/aa10755.html#aa10765

## Related Health Topics

    * Anesthesia
    * Biopsy
    * Breast Cancer
    * Cancer
    * Mammography
    * Ultrasound

## Related Lab Test Information

    * BRCA Test
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 24 March 2020 Page last reviewed: 24 July 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

