Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007653.htm    
                                Description: Breast cancer is cancer that starts in breast tissue. Both males and females have breast tissue. This means that anyone, including men and boys, can develop breast cancer.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Breast cancer in men

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007653.htm

# Breast cancer in men

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Breast cancer is cancer that starts in breast tissue. Both males and females
have breast tissue. This means that anyone, including men and boys, can
develop breast cancer.

Breast cancer in men is rare. Male breast cancer accounts for less than 1% of
all breast cancers.

## Causes

The cause of breast cancer in men is not clear. But there are risk factors
that make breast cancer more likely in men:

    * Exposure to radiation
    * Higher estrogen levels due to factors such as heavy drinking, cirrhosis, obesity, and some medicines to treat prostate cancer
    * Heredity, such as a family history of breast cancer, mutated BRCA1 or BRCA2 gene, and certain genetic disorders, such as Klinefelter syndrome
    * Excess breast tissue (gynecomastia)
    * Older age -- men are often diagnosed with breast cancer between ages 60 to 70

## Symptoms

Symptoms of breast cancer in men include:

    * Lump or swelling in the breast tissue. One breast may be larger than the other.
    * A small lump beneath the nipple.
    * Unusual changes in the nipple or skin around the nipple such as redness, scaling, or puckering.
    * Nipple discharge. 

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will take your medical history and family medical
history. You will have a physical exam and a breast exam.

Your provider may order other tests, including:

    * A mammogram.
    * Breast ultrasound.
    * An MRI of the breast.
    * If any of the tests suggest cancer, your provider will do a biopsy to check for cancer.

If cancer is found, your provider will order other tests to find out:

    * How quickly the cancer might grow
    * How likely it is to spread
    * What treatments might be best
    * What are the chances that the cancer might come back

The tests may include:

    * Bone scan
    * CT scan
    * PET scan
    * Sentinel lymph node biopsy to check if the cancer has spread to the lymph nodes

The biopsy and other tests will be used to grade and stage the tumor. The
results of those tests will help determine your treatment.

## Treatment

Treatment options for breast cancer in men include:

    * Surgery to remove the breast, lymph nodes under the arm, the lining over chest muscles, and chest muscles, if needed
    * Radiation therapy after surgery to kill any remaining cancer cells and to target specific tumors
    * Chemotherapy to kill cancer cells that have spread to other parts of the body
    * Hormone therapy to block hormones that may help certain types of breast cancer grow 

During and after treatment, your provider may ask you to have more tests. This
may include tests you had during diagnosis. The follow-up tests will show how
the treatment is working. They will also show if the cancer comes back.

## Support Groups

Cancer affects how you feel about yourself and your life. You can ease the
stress of illness by joining a cancer support group. Sharing with others who
have had the same experiences and problems can help you feel less alone. The
group can also point you to helpful resources for managing your condition.

Ask your provider to help you find a support group of men who have been
diagnosed with breast cancer.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The long-term outlook for men with breast cancer is excellent when the cancer
is found and treated early.

    * About 91% of men treated before cancer has spread to other areas of the body are cancer-free after 5 years.
    * Almost 3 out of 4 men treated for cancer that has spread to lymph nodes but not to other areas of the body are cancer-free at 5 years.
    * Men who have cancer that has spread to distant parts of the body have a smaller chance of long-term survival.

## Possible Complications

Complications include side effects from surgery, radiation, and chemotherapy.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your provider right away if you notice something unusual about your
breast, including any lumps, skin changes, or discharge.

## Prevention

There is no clear way to prevent breast cancer in men. The best way to protect
yourself is to:

    * Know that men can develop breast cancer
    * Know your risk factors and talk with your provider about screening and early detection with tests if needed
    * Know the possible signs of breast cancer
    * Tell your provider if you notice any changes in your breast 

## Alternative Names

Infiltrating ductal carcinoma - male; Ductal carcinoma in situ - male;
Intraductal carcinoma - male; Inflammatory breast cancer - male; Paget disease
of the nipple - male; Breast cancer - male

## References

Hunt KK, Mittendorf EA. Diseases of the breast. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp
RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 34.

Jain S, Gradishar WJ. Male breast cancer. In: Bland KI, Copeland EM, Klimberg
VS, Gradishar WJ, eds. _The Breast: Comprehensive Management of Benign and
Malignant Diseases_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 76.

National Cancer Institute website. Male breast cancer treatment (PDQ) - health
professional version. www.cancer.gov/types/breast/hp/male-breast-treatment-
pdq. Updated February 8, 2018. Accessed August 22, 2018.

## Review Date 7/26/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Male Breast
Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MaleBreastCancer_thumb.jpg)Male Breast
Cancer _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

