Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/her2-breast-cancer-testing/    
                                Description: HER2 is a protein found on breast cells. It is involved in normal cell growth. In some cancers, the cells have too much HER2 protein. These are known as HER2-positive cancers. HER2 testing can show whether you have HER2-positive cancer. Treatments for HER2-positive cancer can be very effective. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

HER2 (Breast Cancer) Testing

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/her2-breast-cancer-
testing/

# HER2 (Breast Cancer) Testing

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is HER2 breast cancer testing?

HER2 stands for human epidermal growth factor receptor 2. It is a gene that
makes a protein found on the surface of all breast cells. It is involved in
normal cell growth.

Genes are the basic units of heredity, passed down from your mother and
father. In certain cancers, especially breast cancer, the HER2 gene mutates
(changes) and makes extra copies of the gene. When this happens, the HER2 gene
makes too much HER2 protein, causing cells to divide and grow too fast.

Cancers with high levels of the HER2 protein are known as HER2-positive.
Cancers with low levels of the protein are known as HER2-negative. About 20
percent of breast cancers are HER2-positive.

HER2 testing looks at a sample of tumor tissue. The most common ways to test
tumor tissue are:

    * Immunohistochemistry (IHC) testing measures the HER2 protein on the surface of the cells
    * Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) testing looks for extra copies of the HER2 gene

Both types of tests can tell whether you have HER2-positive cancer. Treatments
that specifically target HER2-positive breast cancer can be very effective.

Other names: human epidermal growth factor receptor 2, ERBB2 amplification,
HER2 overexpression, HER2/neu tests

## What is it used for?

HER2 testing is mostly used to find out whether cancer is HER2-positive. It is
also sometimes used to see if cancer is responding to treatment or if cancer
has returned after treatment.

## Why do I need HER2 breast cancer testing?

If you've been diagnosed with breast cancer, you may need this test to find
out if your cancer is HER2-positive or HER2-negative. If you are already being
treated for HER2-positive breast cancer, you may need this test to:

    * Find out if your treatment is working. Normal levels of HER2 may mean you are responding to treatment. High levels may mean the treatment is not working.
    * Find out if cancer has come back after treatment.

## What happens during a HER2 breast cancer test?

Most HER2 testing involves taking a sample of tumor tissue in a procedure
called a biopsy. There are three main types of biopsy procedures:

    *  **Fine needle aspiration biopsy,** which uses a very thin needle to remove a sample of breast cells or fluid
    *  **Core needle biopsy,** which uses a larger needle to remove a sample
    *  **Surgical biopsy,** which removes a sample in a minor, outpatient procedure

 **Fine needle aspiration and core needle biopsies** usually include the
following steps:

    * You will lay on your side or sit on an exam table.
    * A health care provider will clean the biopsy site and inject it with an anesthetic so you won't feel any pain during the procedure.
    * Once the area is numb, the provider will insert either a fine aspiration needle or core biopsy needle into the biopsy site and remove a sample of tissue or fluid.
    * You may feel a little pressure when the sample is withdrawn.
    * Pressure will be applied to the biopsy site until the bleeding stops.
    * Your provider will apply a sterile bandage at the biopsy site.

 **In a surgical biopsy,** a surgeon will make a small cut in your skin to
remove all or part of a breast lump. A surgical biopsy is sometimes done if
the lump can't be reached with a needle biopsy. Surgical biopsies usually
include the following steps.

    * You will lie on an operating table. An IV (intravenous line) may be placed in your arm or hand.
    * You may be given medicine, called a sedative, to help you relax.
    * You will be given local or general anesthesia so you won't feel pain during the procedure.
      * For local anesthesia, a health care provider will inject the biopsy site with medicine to numb the area.
      * For general anesthesia, a specialist called an anesthesiologist will give you medicine so you will be unconscious during the procedure.
    * Once the biopsy area is numb or you are unconscious, the surgeon will make a small cut into the breast and remove part or all of a lump. Some tissue around the lump may also be removed.
    * The cut in your skin will be closed with stitches or adhesive strips.

The type of biopsy you have will depend on different factors, including the
size and location of the tumor. HER2 can also be measured in a blood test, but
blood testing for HER2 has not been proven to be useful for most patients. So
it is not usually recommended.

After your tissue sample has been taken, it will be tested in one of two ways:

    * HER2 protein levels will be measured.
    * The sample will be looked at for extra copies of the HER2 gene.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You won't need any special preparations if you are getting local anesthesia
(numbing of the biopsy site). If you are getting general anesthesia, you will
probably need to fast (not eat or drink) for several hours before surgery.
Your surgeon will give you more specific instructions. Also, if you are
getting a sedative or general anesthesia, be sure to arrange for someone to
drive you home. You may be groggy and confused after you wake up from the
procedure.

## Are there any risks to the test?

You may have a little bruising or bleeding at the biopsy site. Sometimes the
site gets infected. If that happens, you will be treated with antibiotics. A
surgical biopsy may cause some additional pain and discomfort. Your health
care provider may recommend or prescribe medicine to help you feel better.

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

## What do the results mean?

If HER2 protein levels are higher than normal or extra copies of the HER2 gene
are found, it probably means you have HER2-positive cancer. If your results
show normal amounts of HER2 protein or the normal number HER2 genes, you
probably have HER2-negative cancer.

If your results were not clearly positive or negative, you will probably get
retested, either using a different tumor sample or using a different testing
method. Most often, IHC (testing for the HER2 protein) is done first, followed
by FISH (testing for extra copies of the gene). IHC testing is less expensive
and provides faster results than FISH. But most breast specialists think FISH
testing is more accurate.

Treatments for HER2-positive breast cancer can substantially shrink cancerous
tumors, with very few side effects. These treatments are not effective in
HER2-negative cancers.

If you are being treated for HER2-positive cancer, normal results may mean you
are responding to treatment. Results that show higher than normal amounts may
mean your treatment is not working, or that cancer has come back after
treatment.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about HER2 breast cancer testing?

While it's much more common in women, breast cancer, including HER2-positive
breast cancer, can also affect men. If a man has been diagnosed with breast
cancer, HER2 testing may be recommended.

In addition, both men and women may need HER2 testing if they have been
diagnosed with certain cancers of the stomach and esophagus. These cancers
sometimes have high levels of the HER2 protein and may respond well to
HER2-positive cancer treatments.

## References

    1. American Cancer Society [Internet]. Atlanta: American Cancer Society Inc.; c2018. Breast Biopsy [updated 2017 Oct 9; cited 2018 Aug 11]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.org/cancer/breast-cancer/screening-tests-and-early-detection/breast-biopsy.html
    2. American Cancer Society [Internet]. Atlanta: American Cancer Society Inc.; c2018. Breast Cancer HER2 Status [updated 2017 Sep 25; cited 2018 Aug 11]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.org/cancer/breast-cancer/understanding-a-breast-cancer-diagnosis/breast-cancer-her2-status.html
    3. Breastcancer.org [Internet]. Ardmore (PA): Breastcancer.org; c2018. HER2 Status [updated 2018 Feb 19; cited 2018 Aug 11]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.breastcancer.org/symptoms/diagnosis/her2
    4. Cancer.net [Internet]. Alexandria (VA): American Society of Clinical Oncology; c2005â2018. Breast Cancer: Diagnosis; 2017 Apr [cited 2018 Aug 11]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.net/cancer-types/breast-cancer/diagnosis
    5. Cancer.net [Internet]. Alexandria (VA): American Society of Clinical Oncology; c2005â2018. Breast Cancer: Introduction; 2017 Apr [cited 2018 Aug 11]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.net/cancer-types/breast-cancer/introduction
    6. Johns Hopkins Medicine [Internet]. The Johns Hopkins University; Health Library: Breast Cancer: Grades and Stages [cited 2018 Aug 11]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.hopkinsmedicine.org/healthlibrary/conditions/adult/breast_health/breast_cancer_grades_and_stages_34,8535-1
    7. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.; American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. HER2 [updated 2018 Jul 27; cited 2018 Aug 11]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/her2
    8. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2018. Breast Biopsy: About 2018 Mar 22 [cited 2018 Aug 11]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/tests-procedures/breast-biopsy/about/pac-20384812
    9. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2018. General Anesthesia: About; 2017 Dec 29 [cited 2018 Aug 11]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/tests-procedures/anesthesia/about/pac-20384568
    10. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2018. HER2-positive breast cancer: What is it?; 2018 Mar 29 [cited 2018 Aug 11]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/breast-cancer/expert-answers/faq-20058066
    11. Mayo Clinic: Mayo Medical Laboratories [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1995â2018. Test ID: HERDN: HER2, Breast, DCIS, Quantitative Immunohistochemistry, Manual No Reflex: Clinical and Interpretive [cited 2018 Aug 11]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayomedicallaboratories.com/test-catalog/Clinical+and+Interpretive/71498
    12. MD Anderson Cancer Center [Internet]. The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center; c2018. Breast Cancer [cited 2018 Aug 11]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mdanderson.org/cancer-types/breast-cancer.html
    13. Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center [Internet]. New York: Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center; c2018. What You Should Know About Metastatic Breast Cancer; 2016 Oct 27 [cited 2018 Aug 11]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mskcc.org/blog/what-you-should-know-about-metastatic-breast
    14. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co., Inc.; c2018. Breast Cancer [cited 2018 Aug 11]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.merckmanuals.com/home/women-s-health-issues/breast-disorders/breast-cancer
    15. National Breast Cancer Foundation [Internet]. Frisco (TX): National Breast Cancer Foundation Inc.; c2016. Lab Tests [cited 2018 Aug 11]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nationalbreastcancer.org/breast-cancer-lab-tests
    16. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Blood Tests [cited 2018 Aug 11]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: Â https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    17. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms: gene [cited 2018 Aug 11]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/publications/dictionaries/cancer-terms/search?contains=false&q=gene
    18. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms: HER2 test [cited 2018 Aug 11]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/publications/dictionaries/cancer-terms/search?contains=false&q=HER2
    19. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2018. Health Encyclopedia: HER2/neu [cited 2018 Aug 11]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid=her2neu

## Related Health Topics

    * Biopsy
    * Breast Cancer
    * Cancer
    * Esophageal Cancer
    * Genetic Disorders
    * Male Breast Cancer
    * Mammography
    * Stomach Cancer

## Related Lab Test Information

    * BRCA Test
    * Breast Biopsy
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results
    * Tumor Marker Tests

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 25 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

