Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000057.htm    
                                Description: When you have radiation treatment for cancer, your body goes through changes. Follow your health care provider    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Chest radiation - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000057.htm

# Chest radiation - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

When you have radiation treatment for cancer, your body goes through changes.
Follow your health care provider's instructions on how to care for yourself at
home. Use the information below as a reminder.

## What to Expect at Home

About 2 weeks after your first treatment:

    * It may be hard to swallow, or swallowing may hurt.
    * Your throat may feel dry or scratchy.
    * You may develop a cough.
    * Your skin over the treated area may turn red, start to peel, get dark, or it may itch.
    * Your body hair will fall out, but only in the area being treated. When your hair grows back, it may be different than before.
    * You may develop a fever, more mucus when you cough, or feel more out of breath.

For weeks to months after radiation treatment, you may notice shortness of
breath. You are more likely to notice this when you are active. Contact your
doctor if you develop this symptom.

## Skin Care

When you have radiation treatment, color markings are drawn on your skin. DO
NOT remove them. These show where to aim the radiation. If they come off, do
not redraw them. Tell your doctor instead.

To take care of the treatment area:

    * Wash gently with lukewarm water only. Don't scrub.
    * Use a mild soap that doesn't dry out your skin.
    * Pat your skin dry.
    * Don't use lotions, ointments, makeup, perfumed powders, or any other perfumed products on this area. Ask your provider what is OK to use.
    * Keep the area that is being treated out of direct sunlight.
    * Don't scratch or rub your skin.
    * Don't put heating pads or ice bags on the treatment area.
    * Wear loose-fitting clothing.

Tell your provider if you have any breaks or openings in your skin.

## Other Self-care

You will likely feel tired after a few days. If so:

    * Don't try to do too much in a day. You probably will not be able to do everything you are used to doing.
    * Try to get more sleep at night. Rest during the day when you can.
    * Take a few weeks off work, or work less. 

You need to eat enough protein and calories to keep your weight up.

To make eating easier:

    * Choose foods that you like.
    * Try foods with gravy, broths, or sauces. They will be easier to chew and swallow.
    * Eat small meals and eat more often during the day.
    * Cut your food into small pieces.
    * Ask your doctor or dentist if artificial saliva might help you.

Drink at least 8 to 12 cups (2 to 3 liters) of liquid each day, not including
coffee or tea, or other drinks that have caffeine in them.

Don't drink alcohol or eat spicy foods, acidic foods, or foods that are very
hot or cold. These will bother your throat.

If pills are hard to swallow, try crushing them and mixing them with ice cream
or other soft food. Ask your doctor or pharmacist before crushing your
medicines. Some medicines do not work when crushed.

Watch out for these signs of lymphedema (swelling) in your arm.

    * You have a feeling of tightness in your arm.
    * Rings on your fingers get tighter.
    * Your arm feels weak.
    * You have pain, aching, or heaviness in your arm.
    * Your arm is red, swollen, or there are signs of infection.

Ask your provider about exercises you can do to keep your arm moving freely.

## Dry, Sore Throat, or Cough

Try using a humidifier or vaporizer in your bedroom or main living area. DO
NOT smoke cigarettes, cigars, or pipes. DO NOT chew tobacco.

Try sucking on sugar-free candy to add saliva to your mouth.

Mix one half teaspoon or 3 grams of salt and one quarter teaspoon or 1.2 grams
of baking soda in 8 ounces (240 milliliters) of warm water. Gargle with this
solution several times a day. DO NOT use store-bought mouthwashes or lozenges.

For a cough that does not go away:

    * Ask your provider which cough medicine is OK to use (it should have low alcohol content).
    * Drink enough fluids to keep your mucus thin.

## Follow-up Care

Your doctor may check your blood counts regularly, especially if the radiation
treatment area is large.

## Alternative Names

Radiation - chest - discharge; Cancer - chest radiation; Lymphoma - chest
radiation

## References

Doroshow JH. Approach to the patient with cancer. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI,
eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 179.

National Cancer Institute website. Radiation therapy and you: support for
people with cancer. www.cancer.gov/publications/patient-
education/radiationttherapy.pdf. Updated October 2016. Accessed February 28,
2018.

## Read More

    * Hodgkin lymphoma
    * Lung cancer - small cell
    * Mastectomy
    * Non-small cell lung cancer

## Patient Instructions

    * Drinking water safely during cancer treatment
    * Dry mouth during cancer treatment
    * Eating extra calories when sick - adults
    * Lymphedema - self-care
    * Radiation therapy - questions to ask your doctor
    * Safe eating during cancer treatment
    * When you have diarrhea
    * When you have nausea and vomiting

## Review Date 1/31/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Breast Cancer
    * Hodgkin Disease
    * Lung Cancer
    * Lymphoma
    * Male Breast Cancer
    * Mesothelioma
    * Radiation Therapy
    * Thymus Cancer

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

