Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007196.htm    
                                Description: A good way to decide if your weight is healthy for your height is to figure out your body mass index (BMI). You and your health care provider can use your BMI to estimate how much body fat you have.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Body mass index

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007196.htm

# Body mass index

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A good way to decide if your weight is healthy for your height is to figure
out your body mass index (BMI). You and your health care provider can use your
BMI to estimate how much body fat you have.

## Information

Being obese puts strain on your heart and can lead to serious health problems.
These include:

    * Arthritis in your knees and hips
    * Heart disease
    * High blood pressure
    * Sleep apnea
    * Type 2 diabetes
    * Varicose veins 

HOW TO DETERMINE YOUR BMI

Your BMI estimates how much you should weigh based on your height.

There are many websites with calculators that give your BMI when you enter
your weight and height.

You can also calculate it yourself:

    * Multiply your weight in pounds by 703.
    * Divide that answer by your height in inches.
    * Divide that answer by your height in inches again. 

For example, a woman who weighs 270 pounds (122 kilograms) and is 68 inches
(172 centimeters) tall has a BMI of 41.0.

Use the chart below to see what category your BMI falls into, and whether you
need to be concerned about your weight.

Use the chart to see what category your BMI falls into **BMI**|  **CATEGORY**  
---|---  
Below 18.5| Underweight  
18.5 to 24.9| Healthy  
25.0 to 29.9| Overweight  
30.0 to 39.9| Obese  
Over 40| Extreme or high risk obesity  
  
BMI is not always the best way to decide whether you need to lose weight. If
you have more or less muscle than is normal, your BMI may not be a perfect
measure of how much body fat you have:

    *  **Body builders.** Because muscle weighs more than fat, people who are very muscular may have a high BMI.
    *  **Older people.** In older adults it is often better to have a BMI between 25 and 27, rather than under 25. If you are older than 65, for example, a slightly higher BMI may help protect you from thinning of the bones (osteoporosis).
    *  **Children.** While many children are obese, DO NOT use this BMI calculator for evaluating a child. Talk to your child's provider about the right weight for your child's age. 

Providers use a few methods to decide whether you are overweight. Your
provider may also take your waist circumference and waist-to-hip ratio into
consideration.

Your BMI alone can't predict your health risk, but most experts say that a BMI
greater than 30 (obesity) is unhealthy. No matter what your BMI is, exercise
can help reduce your risk of developing heart disease and diabetes. Remember
to always talk to your provider before starting an exercise program.

## Alternative Names

BMI; Obesity - body mass index; Obesity - BMI; Overweight - body mass index;
Overweight - BMI

## Patient Instructions

    * After weight-loss surgery - what to ask your doctor
    * Before weight-loss surgery - what to ask your doctor
    * Gastric bypass surgery - discharge 
    * Laparoscopic gastric banding - discharge 

## Images

    * ![Calculating body frame size](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17182t.jpg)Calculating body frame size

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. About adult BMI.
www.cdc.gov/healthyweight/assessing/bmi/adult_bmi/index.html. Updated August
29, 2017. Accessed August 22, 2018.

Gahagan S. Overweight and obesity. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW,
Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 47.

Jensen MD. Obesity. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_.
25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 220.

## Review Date 6/28/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Body Weight](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BodyWeight_thumb.jpg)Body Weight
_Read more_

![Obesity](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Obesity_thumb.jpg)Obesity _Read
more_

![Weight
Control](https://medlineplus.gov/images/WeightControl_thumb.jpg)Weight Control
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

