Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000893.htm    
                                Description: Your metabolism is the process your body uses to make and burn energy from food. You rely on your metabolism to breathe, think, digest, circulate blood, keep warm in the cold, and stay cool in the heat.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Can you boost your metabolism?

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000893.htm

# Can you boost your metabolism?

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Your metabolism is the process your body uses to make and burn energy from
food. You rely on your metabolism to breathe, think, digest, circulate blood,
keep warm in the cold, and stay cool in the heat.

It is a common belief that raising your metabolism helps you burn more
calories and increase weight loss. Unfortunately, there are more myths about
boosting metabolism than tactics that work. Some myths can backfire. If you
think you are burning more calories than you actually are, you could end up
eating more than you should.

Here are the facts on 6 metabolism myths.

 **Myth #1: Exercise boosts your metabolism long after you stop.**

It is true that you burn more calories when you exercise, especially when you
get your heart rate up with activities like biking or swimming.

That increased calorie burn lasts as long as your workout. You might keep
burning extra calories for an hour or so after that, but the aftereffects of
exercise stop there. Once you stop moving, your metabolism will go back to its
resting rate.

If you load up on calories after a workout, thinking your body will keep
burning calories the rest of the day, you risk weight gain.

 **What to do:** Exercise for your health and refuel with healthy foods. DO
NOT let exercise give you an excuse to overindulge in high-calorie foods and
drinks.

 **Myth #2: Adding muscle will help you lose weight.**

Muscle burns more calories than fat. So will building more muscle not boost
your metabolism? Yes, but only by a small amount. Most regular exercisers only
gain a few pounds (kilograms) of muscle. That is not enough to make a big
difference in the number of calories you burn. Plus, when not in active use,
muscles burn very few calories. Most of the time, your brain, heart, kidneys,
liver, and lungs account for most of your metabolism.

 **What to do:** Lift weights for stronger bones and muscles. Make strength
training part of a well-rounded exercise program that includes activities to
get your heart pumping. To keep off extra weight, you also need to eat a
healthy diet and appropriate portions.

 **Myth #3: Eating certain foods can boost your metabolism.**

Eating foods like green tea, caffeine, or hot chili peppers will not help you
shed excess pounds (kilograms). Some may provide a small boost in your
metabolism, but not enough to make a difference in your weight.

 **What to do:** Choose foods for their good nutrition and taste. Eat a
variety of healthy foods that fill you up without filling you out.

 **Myth #4: Eating small meals during the day increases your metabolism.**

Unfortunately, there is little scientific evidence that eating small, frequent
meals boosts metabolism.

Spreading your meals throughout the day might keep you from getting too hungry
and overeating. If so, it is a good idea. Athletes perform better when they
eat more often in smaller amounts. If you are someone who has a hard time
stopping once you start eating, 3 meals a day may make it easier for you to
stick to an appropriate intake than lots of little snacks.

 **What to do:** Pay attention to your hunger cues and eat when you feel
hungry. Keep track of your daily diet and limit high-sugar, high-fat snacks.

 **Myth #5: Getting a full night's sleep is good for your metabolism.**

A good night's sleep will not boost your metabolism but going without sleep
can add pounds. Sleep-deprived people tend to eat more calories than they
need, possibly to deal with feeling tired.

**What to do:** Plan your life so you have enough time for sleep. If you have
trouble sleeping, look into ways to unwind before bedtime and make your
bedroom comfortable for sleep. Talk to your health care provider if self-care
tips for better sleep do not help.

 **Myth# 6: You will gain weight as you age because your metabolism slows
down.**

While it is true that our metabolism is slower than when we were kids, a lot
of mid-life weight gain happens because we become less active. Jobs and family
push exercise to the back burner. When we do not move as much, we lose muscle
and gain fat.

As you get older, you may also have trouble regulating your meals with age.
After a big meal, younger people tend to eat less until their bodies use up
the calories. This natural appetite control seems to fade as people get older.
Unless you pay close attention, big meals can quickly add up.

 **What to do:** As you get older, it is important to make exercise a regular
part of every day. By staying active and sticking with smaller portions of
healthy foods, you can ward off weight gain as you age.

## Alternative Names

Weight-loss boost metabolism; Obesity - boost metabolism; Overweight - boost
metabolism

## References

Cowley MA, Brown WA, Considine RV. Obesity: the problem and its management.
In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult
and Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 26.

Hodgson AB, Randell RK, Jeukendrup AE. The effect of green tea extract on fat
oxidation at rest and during exercise: evidence of efficacy and proposed
mechanisms. _Adv Nutrl_. 2013;4(2):129-140. PMID: 23493529
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23493529.

Klein S, Romijn JA. Obesity. In: Melmed S, Polonsky KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg
HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 36.

Whiting S, Derbyshire EJ, Tiwari B. Could capsaicinoids help to support weight
management? A systematic review and meta-analysis of energy intake data.
_Appetite_. 2014;73:183-188. PMID: 24246368
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24246368.

## Review Date 4/23/2018

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, The Brooklyn Hospital Center, Brooklyn, NY. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Weight Control

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

