Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000733.htm    
                                Description: Whether it is healthy or unhealthy, a habit is something you do without having to think about it. People who succeed at weight loss, turn healthy eating into a habit.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Healthy habits for weight loss

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000733.htm

# Healthy habits for weight loss

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Whether it is healthy or unhealthy, a habit is something you do without having
to think about it. People who succeed at weight loss, turn healthy eating into
a habit.

These healthy eating habits can help you lose weight and keep it off.

## Set up Your Kitchen

The family kitchen can trigger unhealthy eating habits if your shelves are
lined with sugary snacks. Rearrange the kitchen to make diet-boosting foods
the most natural choice.

    *  **Keep healthy food in sight.** Keep a bowl of fruit on the counter and pre-chopped vegetables in the refrigerator. When you feel hungry, you'll have a healthy snack close at hand.
    *  **Reduce temptation.** If you know you can't control yourself around cookies, keep them and other diet-busting foods out of reach, or even better, out of the house.
    *  **Always eat off dishes.** Eating straight out of a container or a bag promotes overeating.
    *  **Use smaller plates.** If you start a meal with less food in front of you, you will likely eat less by the time it is over. 

## Practice Healthy Eating

Life gets busy and a lot of people end up eating without thinking about the
food they're putting in their mouths. The following habits can help you avoid
this mindless eating.

    *  **Eat breakfast.** An empty stomach is an invitation to overeat. Start your day with whole-grain bread or cereal, low-fat milk or yogurt, and a piece of fruit.
    *  **Plan ahead.** DO NOT wait until you are hungry to decide what to eat. Plan your meals and go shopping when you feel full. Unhealthy options will be easier to pass by.
    *  **Power down your screen.** Eating with your eyes on the TV, computer, or any other distracting screen takes your mind off what you're eating. Not only do you miss out on tasting your food, you are more likely to overeat.
    *  **Eat healthy food first.** Start with soup or salad and you'll be less hungry when you turn to the main course. Just steer clear of cream-based soups and salad dressings.
    *  **Eat small snacks often.** Rather than 2 or 3 large meals, you can eat smaller meals and healthy snacks to keep yourself going throughout the day.
    *  **Weigh yourself.** The information on the scale will help you see how your weight goes up or down depending on how you eat.
    *  **Keep your house cool.** Feeling slightly chilly in winter may help you burn more calories than if you keep your home on the warmer side. 

## Break old Habits

Emotional eating, or eating for comfort rather than nutrition, can make a big
difference in what and how much you eat. To improve your relationship with
food:

    *  **Pay attention.** Listen to your body for how certain foods make you feel. Fried food might taste great now. But how will it feel in your stomach an hour from now?
    *  **Slow down.** Put down your fork between bites or have a conversation as you eat. By pacing yourself, you give your stomach a chance to feel full.
    *  **Keep track.** Read the nutrition labels on your food before you eat it. Write down what you plan to eat before you eat. Both of these habits make you stop and think before you put something in your mouth.
    *  **Change how you talk about food.** Instead of saying "I can't eat that," say, "I don't eat that." Saying _you can't_ may make you feel deprived. Saying _you don't_ puts you in charge. 

## Get Support

Friends and family can help you stay on track and encourage you along the way.
Be sure to pick people who understand how important this is and who will
support you; not judge you or try to tempt you with old eating habits.

    *  **Send progress reports.** Tell your friends your goal weight and send them weekly updates of how you are doing.
    *  **Use social media.** Some mobile apps let you log everything you eat and share that with select friends. This can help you record and be accountable for what you eat. 

## Alternative Names

Obesity - healthy habits; Obesity - healthy eating

## Images

    * ![Healthy diet](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10025t.jpg)Healthy diet

## References

Jensen MD. Obesity. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_.
25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 220.

Kelley CP, Sbrocco G, Sbrocco T. Behavioral modification for the management of
obesity. _Prim Care_. 2016;43(1):159-175. PMID: 26896208
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26896208.

Moyer VA, US Preventive Services Task Force. Screening for and management of
obesity in adults: US Preventive Services Task Force recommendation statement.
_Ann Intern Med_. 2012;157(5):373-378. PMID: 22733087
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22733087.

Ramage S, Farmer A, Eccles KA, McCargar L. Healthy strategies for successful
weight loss and weight maintenance: a systematic review. _Appl Physiol Nutr
Metab_. 2014;39(1):1-20. PMID: 24383502 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24383502.

US Department of Health and Human Services and US Department of Agriculture
website. 2015-2020 Dietary Guidelines for Americans. 8th Edition.
health.gov/dietaryguidelines/2015/resources/2015-2020_Dietary_Guidelines.pdf.
Updated December 2015. Accessed June 14, 2018.

US Department of Health and Human Services website. Nutrition and weight
status. www.healthypeople.gov/2020/topics-objectives/topic/nutrition-and-
weight-status. Updated June 14, 2018. Accessed June 14, 2018.

## Review Date 4/15/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * How to Lower Cholesterol
    * Weight Control

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

