Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000337.htm    
                                Description: It can be hard to measure out every portion of food you eat. Yet there are some simple ways to know that you are eating the right serving sizes. These tips will help you choose adjust portion sizes to    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Portion size

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000337.htm

# Portion size

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

It can be hard to measure out every portion of food you eat. Yet there are
some simple ways to know that you are eating the right serving sizes. These
tips will help you choose adjust portion sizes to help with weight loss.

A recommended serving size is the amount of each food that you are supposed to
eat during a meal or snack. A portion is the amount of food that you actually
eat. If you eat more or less than the recommended serving size, you may get
either too much or too little of the nutrients you need.

People with diabetes who use the exchange list for carb counting, should keep
in mind that a "serving" on the exchange list will not always be the same as
the recommended serving size.

For foods like cereal and pasta, it may be helpful to use measuring cups to
measure out an exact serving for a couple of days until you get more practiced
at eyeballing the appropriate portion.

Use your hand and other everyday objects to measure portion sizes:

    * One serving of meat or poultry is the palm of your hand or a deck of cards
    * One 3-ounce (84 grams) serving of fish is a checkbook
    * One-half cup (40 grams) of ice cream is a tennis ball
    * One serving of cheese is six dice
    * One-half cup (80 grams) of cooked rice, pasta, or snacks such as chips or pretzels is a rounded handful, or a tennis ball
    * One serving of a pancake or waffle is a compact disc
    * Two tablespoons (36 grams) of peanut butter is a ping-pong ball 

You should eat five or more servings of fruits and vegetables each day to help
reduce your risk of cancer and other diseases. Fruits and vegetables are low
in fat and high in fiber. They will also help you fill up so that you are
satisfied at the end of your meals. They do contain calories, so you should
not eat an unlimited amount, especially of fruits.

How to measure out the correct serving sizes of fruits and vegetables:

    * One cup (90 grams) of chopped raw fruits or vegetables is a woman's fist or a baseball
    * One medium apple or orange is a tennis ball
    * One-quarter cup (35 grams) of dried fruit or nuts is a golf ball or small handful
    * One cup (30 grams) of lettuce is four leaves (Romaine lettuce)
    * One medium baked potato is a computer mouse 

To control your portion sizes when you are eating at home, try the following
tips:

    * DO NOT eat from the bag. You could be tempted to eat too much. Use the serving size on the package to portion out the snack into small bags or bowls. You can also buy single-serving portions of your favorite snack foods. If you buy in bulk, you can divide snacks up into single-serving portions when you get home from the store.
    * Serve food on smaller plates. Eat from a salad plate instead of a dinner plate. Keep serving dishes on the kitchen counter so you will have to get up for seconds. Putting your food out of easy reach and out of sight will make it harder for you to overeat.
    * Half of your plate should contain green vegetables. Divide the other half between lean protein and whole grains. Filling half of your plate with green vegetables before you serve the rest of your entrÃ©e is one of the easiest methods of portion control.
    * Substitute lower-fat varieties of food. Instead of whole-fat cream cheese, sour cream, and milk, buy low-fat or skim instead. Use half the amount you would normally use of to save even more calories. You can try replacing half of the cream cheese with hummus or mix the sour cream with plain yogurt to make this easier.
    * DO NOT eat mindlessly. When you snack in front of the television or while doing other activities, you will be distracted enough that you may eat too much. Eat at the table. Focus your attention on your food so you will know when you have had enough to eat.
    * Snack between meals if desired. If you are hungry between meals, eat a healthy, high-fiber snack such as a piece of fruit, small salad, or bowl of broth-based soup. The snack will fill you up so that you do not eat too much at your next meal. Snacks that pair protein and carbohydrates with fiber will leave you more satisfied. Some examples are having an apple with string cheese, whole-wheat crackers with peanut butter, or baby carrots with hummus. 

To control your portion sizes when eating out, try these tips:

    * Order the small size. Instead of a medium or large, ask for the smallest size. By eating a small hamburger instead of a large, you will save about 150 calories. A small order of fries will save you about 300 calories, and a small soda will save 150 calories. Don't super-size your order.
    * Order the "lunch size" of a food, rather than the dinner size.
    * Order appetizers rather than entrees.
    * Share your meal. Split an entree with a friend, or cut your meal in half when it arrives. Put one half in a to-go box before you start eating. You can have the rest of your meal for lunch the next day.
    * Fill up with lower calorie foods. Order a small salad, fruit cup, or cup of broth-based soup before your entree. It will fill you up so that you eat less of your meal. 

## Alternative Names

Obesity - portion size; Overweight - portion size; Weight-loss - portion size;
Healthy diet - portion size

## References

Parks EP, Shaikhkhalil A, Groleau V, Wendel D, Stallings VA. Feeding healthy
infants, children, and adolescents. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW,
Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 45.

US Department of Health and Human Services. US Department of Agriculture
website. 2015 - 2020 Dietary Guidelines for Americans. 8th Edition.
health.gov/dietaryguidelines/2015/resources/2015-2020_Dietary_Guidelines.pdf.
Updated December 2015. Accessed October 11, 2018.

## Review Date 7/14/2018

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, CNSC, University of Virginia Health System,
Charlottesville, VA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Weight Control

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

