Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000338.htm    
                                Description: For almost anyone trying to watch their weight, choosing healthy snacks can be a challenge.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Snacks for adults

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000338.htm

# Snacks for adults

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

For almost anyone trying to watch their weight, choosing healthy snacks can be
a challenge.

Even though snacking has developed a "bad image," snacks can be an important
part of your diet.

They can provide energy in the middle of the day or when you exercise. A
healthy snack between meals can also decrease your hunger and keep you from
overeating at meal time.

There are many snacks to choose from, and certainly not all snacks are healthy
or help you manage your weight. Try to limit the unhealthy snacks you bring
into the house. If they are not available, you will not be able to snack
mindlessly.

## What Makes a Healthy Snack?

If you are not sure if a snack is healthy, read the Nutrition Facts label. An
updated Nutrition Facts label, which will begin appearing on products in 2018,
provides more information on serving sizes and added sugars.

Pay attention to the portion size given on the label. It is easy to eat more
than this amount. Never eat straight from the bag, always portion out an
appropriate serving and put the container away before you start snacking.
Avoid snacks that list sugar as one the first few ingredients. Nuts are a
healthy snack, but the portion size is small and if you snack straight from
the bag, it is very easy to eat too many calories.

Other factors to think about:

    * The size of the snack should be the right size, a good balance between enough calories to satisfy you, but still not too many to promote unwanted weight gain.
    * Pick foods that are low in added fat and sugar and high in fiber and water. This means an apple is a healthier snack than a bag of chips.
    * Aim for fruits, vegetables, whole-grain snacks, and low-fat dairy.
    * Limit foods and drinks that contain added sugar.
    * Fresh fruit is a healthier choice than a fruit-flavored drink. Foods and drinks that list sugar or corn syrup as one of the first ingredients are not healthy snack choices.
    * Pairing protein and carbohydrate will help the snack to keep you fullest for the longest. Examples include having apple and string cheese, whole wheat crackers with peanut butter, carrots and hummus, or plain yogurt and fresh fruit. 

## Healthy Snacks

Fruits and vegetables are good choices for healthy snacks. They are full of
vitamins and low in calories and fat. Some whole-wheat crackers and cheeses
also make good snacks.

Some examples of healthy snack components are:

    * Apples (dried or cut into wedges), 1 medium or Â¼ cup (35 grams)
    * Bananas, 1 medium
    * Raisins, Â¼ cup (35 grams)
    * Fruit leather (dried fruit puree) without added sugar
    * Carrots (regular carrots cut into strips, or baby carrots ), 1 cup (130 grams)
    * Snap peas (the pods are edible), 1.5 cups (350 grams)
    * Nuts, 1 oz. (28 grams) (about 23 almonds)
    * Whole-grain dry cereal (if sugar is not listed as one of the first 2 ingredients), Â¾ cup (70 grams)
    * Pretzels, 1 oz. (28 grams)
    * String cheese, 1.5 oz.(42 grams)
    * Low-fat or nonfat yogurt, 8 oz.(224 grams)
    * Toasted whole-wheat English muffin
    * Air popped popcorn, 3 cups (33 grams)
    * Cherry or grape tomatoes, Â½ cup (120 grams)
    * Hummus, Â½ cups (120 grams)
    * Pumpkin seeds in shell, Â½ cup (18 grams) 

## Other Tips to Keep in Mind

Put snacks in small plastic containers or bags so they are easy to carry in a
pocket or backpack. Putting snacks in containers helps you eat the right size
portion. Plan ahead and bring your own snacks to work.

Limit "junk-food" snacks like chips, candy, cake, cookies, and ice cream. The
best way to keep from eating junk food or other unhealthy snacks is to not
have these foods in your house.

It is OK to have an unhealthy snack once in a while. Never allowing any
unhealthy snacks or sweets may result in sneaking these foods. The key is
balance and moderation.

Other tips:

    * Replace the candy dish with a fruit bowl.
    * Store foods like cookies, chips, or ice cream where they are hard to see or reach. Put ice cream at the back of the freezer and chips on a high shelf. Move the healthier foods to the front, at eye level.
    * If your family snacks while watching TV, put a portion of the food in a bowl or on a plate for each person. It is easy to overeat straight from the package. 

If you are having a hard time finding healthy snacks that you want to eat,
talk to a registered dietitian or your family's health care provider for ideas
that will work for your family.

## Alternative Names

Weight-loss - snacks; Healthy diet - snacks

## References

American Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. Smart snacking for adults and
teens.
www.eatrightpro.org/~/media/eatright%20files/nationalnutritionmonth/handoutsandtipsheets/nutritiontipsheets/smart-
snacking-for-adults-and-teens.ashx. Accessed October 11, 2018.

Heimburger DC. Nutrition's interface with health and disease. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 213.

United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Food labeling & nutrition.
www.fda.gov/food/food-labeling-nutrition. Updated March 11, 2020. Accessed
March 17, 2020.

U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. U.S. Department of Agriculture
website. 2015 - 2020 Dietary Guidelines for Americans. 8th Edition.
health.gov/dietaryguidelines/2015/resources/2015-2020_Dietary_Guidelines.pdf.
Updated December 2015. Accessed October 11, 2018.

## Review Date 7/14/2018

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, CNSC, University of Virginia Health System,
Charlottesville, VA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. Editorial
update on 04-30-19. Editorial update on 03-17-20.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Nutrition
    * Weight Control

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

