Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000330.htm    
                                Description: The foods and drinks you choose are important to maintaining a healthy weight. This article offers advice on making good food choices to manage your weight.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Managing your weight with healthy eating

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000330.htm

# Managing your weight with healthy eating

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The foods and drinks you choose are important to maintaining a healthy weight.
This article offers advice on making good food choices to manage your weight.

## A Balanced Diet

For a balanced diet, you need to choose foods and drinks that offer good
nutrition. This keeps your body healthy.

Know how many calories your body needs every day. A dietitian can help you
determine your caloric needs based on your:

    * Age
    * Sex
    * Size
    * Activity level
    * Medical conditions 

Know how many servings of dairy, fruits and vegetables, proteins, and grains
and other starches your body needs each day.

A balanced diet also includes avoiding too much of some foods and making sure
you get enough of others.

Stock up on healthy foods such as fresh produce, lean proteins, low-fat dairy,
and whole grains. Limit foods like chips and candy and other empty calories.
"Empty calories" are foods that are low in healthy nutrients and high in
sugar, fat, and calories. Focus on choosing snacks with fiber and protein like
carrots and bell peppers with hummus, an apple and a piece of string cheese,
or yogurt with fresh fruit.

Choose different healthy foods from each food group. Eat foods from each group
with every meal. Whenever you sit down to a meal, green vegetables should take
up half of your plate.

### Protein (meats and beans)

Avoid the fried options; baked, steamed, grilled, stewed, or broiled are lower
in calories and saturated fat.

Good sources of lean protein include white meat turkey and chicken with the
skin removed. Buffalo meat is also a lean option.

Eat lean cuts of beef or pork. Trim away any visible fat.

Eat plenty of fish, especially fatty fish such as salmon and sardines, at
least 2 times per week. Limit varieties that are high in mercury, such as:

    * Shark
    * Swordfish
    * Tile fish
    * King mackerel 

Also limit red snapper and tuna to once a week or less.

Beans are good sources of protein and fiber, including:

    * Pinto beans
    * Black beans
    * Kidney beans
    * Lentils
    * Split peas
    * Garbanzo beans 

Vegetarian proteins such as nuts and seeds are part of a balanced diet. You
can also eat tofu, tempeh, and other soy products.

Eggs are also a good source of protein. For most healthy people, it is fine to
eat 1 to 2 whole eggs per day. The yolk is where most of the vitamins and
minerals are.

![Proteins](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19823.jpg)

### Dairy (milk and milk products)

Always choose fat-free (skim) or low-fat (1%) dairy products and try to
consume 3 cups (0.72 liter) total per day. Be careful with flavored milks that
may contain added sugars. Yogurt is best when it is fat-free or low-fat. Plain
yogurt that you stir your own fresh or dried fruit into is better than fruit-
flavored yogurts, which can contain added sugars.

Cream cheese, cream, and butter are high in saturated fat and should be
consumed in moderation.

### Grains, cereals, and fiber

Grain products are made from wheat, rice, oats, cornmeal, barley, or other
grains such as millet, bulgur, and amaranth. Foods made with grains include:

    * Pasta
    * Oatmeal
    * Breads
    * Breakfast cereals
    * Tortillas
    * Grits 

There are 2 kinds of grains: whole grains and refined grains. Choose mostly
whole-grain foods. They are healthier for you because they have the entire
grain kernel and have more protein and fiber than refined grains. These
include:

    * Bread and pasta made with whole-wheat flour
    * Bulgur (cracked wheat), amaranth, and other grains
    * Oatmeal
    * Popcorn
    * Brown rice 

Check the ingredients list and buy breads and pastas that list "whole wheat"
or "whole grain" as the first ingredient.

Refined grains are changed to make them last longer. They also have a finer
texture. This process removes fiber, protein, iron, and many B vitamins.
Refined grains include white flour, white rice, or de-germed cornmeal. Eat
fewer foods that often have refined grains, such as white flour and pasta.

Products with added bran, such as oat bran or bran cereal, are a good source
of fiber. Just remember, they may not be whole-grain products.

### Oils and fats

 **Monounsaturated or polyunsaturated fat**. These are the healthiest type of
fat. Many healthy oils come from plants, nuts, olives, or fish. They are
liquid at room temperature.

Healthy choices include:

    * Canola
    * Corn
    * Cottonseed
    * Olive
    * Safflower
    * Soybean
    * Sunflower oils 

**Saturated fats**. These are fats found mostly in animal products such as
butter and lard. They are also found in coconut oil. Saturated fats are solid
at room temperature. It is best to try and reduce the amount of saturated fat
in your diet.

You can limit your intake of these fats by eating only a small amount of:

    * Whole milk products
    * Cream
    * Ice cream
    * Butter
    * Snack foods such as cookies, cakes, and crackers that contain these ingredients 

**Trans fats and hydrogenated fats**. This type of fat is often found in fried
foods. They are also in some donuts, cookies, and crackers. Many processed
foods and margarines have them. The recommendation is to limit your intake of
trans fats as much as possible.

Things you can do to help limit your intake of unhealthy saturated fats and
trans fats include:

    * Limit fried foods. Fried food absorbs the fats from cooking oils. This increases your fat intake. If you do fry, cook with polyunsaturated oils. Try to saute foods in a small amount of oil instead of deep-fat frying.
    * Boil, grill, poach, and bake fish, chicken, and lean meats.
    * Read food labels. Try to avoid foods that have partially-hydrogenated fats or trans fats. Limit foods that are high in saturated fats. 

### Fruits and Vegetables

Many fruits and vegetables are low in calories and are also packed with fiber,
vitamins, and minerals, and water. Adequate intake of fruits and vegetables
can help you control your weight. It may also reduce your risk of cancer and
other diseases.

The fiber and water in fruits and vegetables helps fill you up. Including more
fruits and vegetables in your diet can lower the calories and fat in your diet
without leaving you feeling hungry.

Limit fruit juices to one 8-ounce (0.24 liter) cup or less per day. Whole
fruits and vegetables are a better choice than juices because juices do not
have the fiber to help fill you up.

Divide your dinner plate. Fill half your plate with fruits and vegetables.
Fill the other half with whole grains and meat.

Replace half of the cheese in your omelets with spinach, onions, tomatoes, or
mushrooms. Replace 2 ounces (56 grams) of cheese and 2 ounces (56 grams) of
meat in your sandwiches with lettuce, tomato, cucumbers, or onions.

You can reduce your portion of rice or pasta by stirring in broccoli, chopped
bell pepper, cooked squash or other vegetables. Many stores now sell "riced"
cauliflower and broccoli that can be used along with or in place of rice to
increase your vegetable intake. Use frozen vegetables if you do not have fresh
ones. People who are on a low sodium diet may need to limit their intake of
canned vegetables.

### Healthy Eating Tips

Limit snacks that do not have any nutritional benefits, such as cookies,
cakes, chips, or candy.

Make sure you are drinking enough water, at least 8 cups (2 liters) per day.
Limit sugar-sweetened beverages such as sodas and sweet teas.

For more information visit www.choosemyplate.gov.

![myPlate](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/1055.jpg)

## Alternative Names

Obesity - managing your weight; Overweight - managing your weight; Healthy
diet - managing your weight; Weight loss - managing your weight

## Images

    * ![Proteins](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19823t.jpg)Proteins
    * ![myPlate](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1055t.jpg)myPlate
    * ![Healthy diet](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10025t.jpg)Healthy diet

## References

Freeland-Graves JH, Nitzke S; Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. Position of
the academy of nutrition and dietetics: total diet approach to healthy eating.
_J Acad Nutrition and Dietetics_. 2013;113(2):307-317. PMID: 23351634
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23351634.

Heimburger DC. Nutrition's interface with health and disease. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 213.

National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute website. Lifestyle interventions to
reduce cardiovascular risk: systematic evidence review from the lifestyle work
group, 2013. www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/lifestyle-interventions-reduce-
cardiovascular-risk. Accessed October 11, 2018.

U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. U.S. Department of Agriculture
website. 2015 - 2020 Dietary Guidelines for Americans. 8th Edition.
health.gov/dietaryguidelines/2015/resources/2015-2020_Dietary_Guidelines.pdf.
Updated December 2015. Accessed October 11, 2018.

## Review Date 7/14/2018

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, CNSC, University of Virginia Health System,
Charlottesville, VA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * How to Lower Cholesterol
    * Nutrition
    * Weight Control

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

