Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000346.htm    
                                Description: There are several different medicines used for weight loss. Before trying weight-loss medicines, your health care provider will recommend that you try non-drug ways for losing weight. While weight-loss    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Weight-loss medicines

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000346.htm

# Weight-loss medicines

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

There are several different medicines used for weight loss. Before trying
weight-loss medicines, your health care provider will recommend that you try
non-drug ways for losing weight. While weight-loss drugs can be helpful, the
overall weight loss achieved is limited for most people. In addition, it's
likely the weight will be regained when the medicines are stopped.

## Medicine Options

Several weight-loss medicines are available. About 5 to 10 pounds (2 to 4.5
kilograms) can be lost by taking these medicines. But not everyone loses
weight while taking them. Most people also regain the weight after they stop
taking the medicines, unless they have made lasting lifestyle changes. These
changes include exercising more, cutting unhealthy foods from their diets, and
reducing the total amount they eat.

You may also see ads for herbal remedies and supplements that claim to help
you lose weight. Many of these claims are not true. Some of these supplements
can have serious side effects.

 **Note for women:** Pregnant or nursing women should never take diet
medicines. This includes prescription, herbal, and over-the-counter remedies.
Over-the-counter refers to medicines, herbs, or supplements you can buy
without a prescription.

The different weight-loss medicines are described below. Be sure to talk with
your provider about which medicine is right for you.

 **ORLISTAT (XENICAL AND ALLI)**

Orlistat works by slowing the absorption of fat in the intestine by about 30%.
It is approved for long-term use.

About 6 pounds (3 kilograms) or up to 6% of body weight can be lost when using
this medicine. But not everyone loses weight while taking it. Many people
regain most of the weight within 2 years after they stop using it.

The most unpleasant side effect of orlistat is oily diarrhea that may leak
from the anus. Eating fewer fatty foods can reduce this effect. Despite this
side effect, most people tolerate this medicine.

Xenical is the brand of orlistat your provider can prescribe for you. You can
also buy orlistat without a prescription under the name Alli. These pills are
half the strength of Xenical. Orlistat costs about $100 or more a month.
Consider whether the cost, side effects, and the small weight loss you can
expect are worth it to you.

Your body may not absorb important vitamins, minerals, and other nutrients
from food while you are using orlistat. You should take a daily multivitamin
if you use orlistat.

 **MEDICINES THAT SUPPRESS THE APPETITE**

These medicines work in your brain by making you less interested in food.

Not everyone loses weight while taking the medicines. Most people regain the
weight after they stop taking the medicine, unless they have made lasting
lifestyle changes. Talk with your provider about how much weight you can
expect to lose by taking any of these medicines.

These medicines are available only by prescription. They include:

    * Phentermine (Adipex-P, Lomaira, Phentercot, Phentride, Pro-Fast)
    * Phentermine combined with topiramate (Qsymia)
    * Benzphetamine, Phendimetrazine (Bontril, Obezine, Phendiet, Prelu-2)
    * Diethylpropion (Tenuate)
    * Naltrexone combined with bupropion (Contrave)
    * Lorcaserin (Belviq) 

Only lorcaserin and phentermine/topiramate are approved for long-term use. All
other drugs are approved for short-term use of no more than a few weeks.

## Side Effects

Be sure you understand the side effects of weight-loss medicines. Side effects
can include:

    * Increase in blood pressure
    * Problems sleeping, headache, nervousness, and palpitations
    * Nausea, constipation, and dry mouth
    * Depression, which some people who are obese struggle with already

## If You Have Diabetes

If you have diabetes that needs treatment with medicines, you may want to ask
your provider about diabetes medicines that cause weight-loss. These include:

    * Canagliflozin (Invokana)
    * Dapagliflozin (Farxiga)
    * Dapagliflozin combined with saxagliptin (Qtern)
    * Dulaglutide (Trulicity)
    * Empagliflozin (Jardiance)
    * Exenatide (Byetta, Bydureon)
    * Liraglutide (Victoza)
    * Lixisenatide (Adlyxin)
    * Metformin (Glucophage, Glumetza, and Fortamet)
    * Semaglutide (Ozempic)

These medicines are not approved by the FDA to treat weight-loss. So you
should not take them if you do not have diabetes.

## Alternative Names

Prescription weight loss drugs; Diabetes - weight loss drugs; Obesity - weight
loss drugs; Overweight - weight loss drugs

## References

Apovian CM, Aronne LJ, Bessesen DH, et al.; Endocrine Society. Pharmacological
management of obesity: an endocrine Society clinical practice guideline. _J
Clin Endocrinol Metab_. 2015;100(2):342-362. PMID: 25590212
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25590212.

Jensen MD. Obesity. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_.
25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 220.

Klein S, Romijn JA. Obesity. In: Melmed S, Polonsky KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg
HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 36.

Mordes JP, Liu C, Xu S. Medications for weight loss. _Curr Opin Endocrinol
Diabetes Obes_. 2015;22(2):91-97. PMID: 25692921
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25692921.

## Review Date 5/8/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Weight Control

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

