Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000885.htm    
                                Description: Rapid weight loss diet is a type of diet in which you lose more than 2 pounds (1 kilogram, kg) a week over several weeks. To lose weight this quickly you eat very few calories.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Diet for rapid weight loss

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000885.htm

# Diet for rapid weight loss

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Rapid weight loss diet is a type of diet in which you lose more than 2 pounds
(1 kilogram, kg) a week over several weeks. To lose weight this quickly you
eat very few calories.

## How It Works

These diets are most often chosen by obese people who want to lose weight
quickly. These diets are rarely recommended by health care providers. People
on these diets should be followed closely by a provider. Rapid weight loss is
not safe for most people to do on their own.

These diets are only to be used for a short time and are not recommended for
more than several weeks. The types of rapid weight loss diets are described
below.

People who lose weight very quickly are much more likely to regain the weight
over time than people who lose weight slowly through less drastic diet changes
and physical activity.

## Very Low-Calorie Diet (VLCD)

On a VLCD, you may have as few as 800 calories a day and may lose up to 3 to 5
pounds (1.5 to 2 kg) week. Most VLCDs use meal replacements, such as formulas,
soups, shakes, and bars instead of regular meals. This helps ensure that you
get all of the nutrients you need each day.

A VLCD is only recommended for adults who are obese and need to lose weight
for health reasons. These diets are often used before weight-loss surgery. You
should only use a VLCD with the help of your provider. Most experts DO NOT
recommend using a VLCD for more than 12 weeks.

## Low-Calorie Diet (LCD)

These diets usually allow about 1,000 to 1,200 calories a day for women and
1,200 to 1,600 calories a day for men. An LCD is a better choice than a VLCD
for most people who want to lose weight quickly. But you should still be
supervised by a provider. You will not lose weight as fast with an LCD, but
you can lose just as much weight with a VLCD.

An LCD may use a mix of meal replacements and regular food. This makes it
easier to follow than a VLCD.

## Fad Diets

Some fad diets also severely limit calories to achieve rapid weight loss. In
many cases, these diets are not safe. Once you stop the diet, you are at risk
for regaining the weight if you return to your old eating habits. For most
people, it is safest to choose a diet in which you lose a 1/2 pound to 1 pound
(225 grams to 500 grams) a week.

## The Role of Exercise

Rapid weight loss is more about cutting calories than exercising. Talk with
your provider about what type of exercise you should do while you are on this
type of diet. Your provider may suggest waiting until you are on a more long-
term diet to start exercising.

## Health Benefits

Rapid weight loss diet is usually for people who have health problems because
of obesity. For these people, losing a lot of weight quickly can help improve:

    * Diabetes
    * High cholesterol
    * High blood pressure 

## Possible Health Concerns

You should only follow one of these diets with the help of your provider.
Losing more than 1 or 2 pounds (0.5 to 1 kg) a week is not safe for most
people. It can cause you to lose muscle, water, and bone density. Rapid weight
loss can also cause some side effects including:

    * Gallstones
    * Gout
    * Fatigue
    * Constipation
    * Diarrhea
    * Nausea 

People who lose weight quickly are also more likely to gain back the weight
quickly. This can lead to other health problems.

In general, a rapid weight loss diet is not safe for children. It may also not
be safe for teens, pregnant women or older adults unless a provider recommends
it.

If you have a health condition, it is a good idea to talk with your provider
before starting this or any diet plan to lose weight.

## Alternative Names

Very low-calorie diet; VLCD; Low-calorie diet; LCD; Very low energy diet;
Weight loss - rapid weight loss; Overweight - rapid weight loss; Obesity -
rapid weight loss; Diet - rapid weight loss

## Images

    * ![Weight loss](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9475t.jpg)Weight loss
    * ![Yo-yo dieting](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19496t.jpg)Yo-yo dieting

## References

Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics website. Staying away from fad diets.
www.eatright.org/resource/health/weight-loss/fad-diets/staying-away-from-fad-
diets. Updated January 2, 2017. Accessed July 9, 2018.

Cowley MA, Brown WA, Considine RV. Obesity: the problem and its management.
In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult
and Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 26.

Parretti HM, Jebb SA, Johns DJ, Lewis AL, Christian-Brown AM, Aveyard P.
Clinical effectiveness of very-low-energy diets in the management of weight
loss: a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials.
_Obes Rev_. 2016;17(3):225-234. PMID: 26775902
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26775902.

## Review Date 5/17/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, Associate Professor of Medicine, Division of
Metabolism, Endocrinology & Nutrition, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Diets
    * Weight Control

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

