Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000811.htm    
                                Description: Many people gain weight when they quit smoking cigarettes. On average, people gain 5 to 10 pounds (2.25 to 4.5 kilograms) in the months after they give up smoking.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Weight gain after quitting smoking: What to do

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000811.htm

# Weight gain after quitting smoking: What to do

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Many people gain weight when they quit smoking cigarettes. On average, people
gain 5 to 10 pounds (2.25 to 4.5 kilograms) in the months after they give up
smoking.

You may put off quitting if you are worried about adding extra weight. But NOT
smoking is one of the best things you can do for your health. Fortunately,
there are things you can do to keep your weight under control when you quit.

## Why People who Quit Smoking Gain Weight

There are a couple of reasons why people gain weight when they give up
cigarettes. Some have to do with the way nicotine affects your body.

    * The nicotine in cigarettes speeds up your metabolism. Nicotine increases the amount of calories your body uses at rest by about 7% to 15%. Without cigarettes, your body may burn food more slowly.
    * Cigarettes reduce appetite. When you quit smoking, you may feel hungrier.
    * Smoking is a habit. After you quit, you may crave high-calorie foods to replace cigarettes.

## What you can do

As you get ready to quit smoking, here are some things you can do to keep your
weight in check.

    *  **Get active.**Physical activity helps you burn calories. It can also help you ward off cravings for unhealthy foods or cigarettes. If you already exercise, you may need to exercise for longer or more often to burn the calories nicotine used to help remove.
    *  **Shop forhealthy groceries.** Decide what you will buy before you get to the store. Make a list of healthy foods like fruit, vegetables, and low-fat yogurt that you can indulge in without eating too many calories. Stock up on low-calorie "finger foods" that can keep your hands busy, such as sliced apples, baby carrots, or pre-portioned unsalted nuts.
    *  **Stock up on sugar-free gum.** It can keep your mouth busy without adding calories or exposing your teeth to sugar.
    *  **Create healthy eating habits.** Make a healthy meal plan ahead of time so you can combat cravings when they hit. It is easier to say "no" to fried chicken nuggets if you are looking ahead to a roast chicken with vegetables for dinner.
    *  **Never let yourself get too hungry.** A little hunger is a good thing, but if you are so hungry that you have to eat right away, you are more likely to reach for a diet-busting option. Learning to eat foods that fill you up can also help ward off hunger.
    *  **Sleep well.** If you often do not get enough sleep, you are at greater risk of putting on extra weight.
    *  **Control your drinking.** Alcohol, sugary sodas, and sweetened juices may go down easy, but they add up, and can lead to weight gain. Try sparkling water with 100% fruit juice or herbal tea instead.

## Why Quitting is Worth it

Giving up a habit takes time to get used to, both physically and emotionally.
Take one step at a time. If you do put on some weight but manage to stay off
cigarettes, congratulate yourself. There are many benefits of quitting.

    * Your lungs and heart will be stronger
    * Your skin will look younger
    * Your teeth will be whiter
    * You will have better breath
    * Your hair and clothes will smell better
    * You will have more money when you are not buying cigarettes
    * You will perform better in sports or other physical activities

## When to Call the Doctor

If you have tried to quit smoking and relapsed your health care provider may
suggest nicotine replacement therapy. Treatments that come in the form of a
patch, gum, nasal spray, or inhaler give you small doses of nicotine
throughout the day. They can help ease the transition from smoking to going
totally smoke free.

If you gain weight after quitting and cannot lose it, you might have better
results in an organized program. Ask your provider to recommend a program with
a good record that can help you lose weight in a healthy, lasting way.

## Alternative Names

Cigarettes - weight gain; Smoking cessation - weight gain; Smokeless tobacco -
weight gain; Tobacco cessation - weight gain; Nicotine cessation - weight
gain; Weight loss - quitting smoking

## References

Farley AC, Hajek P, Lycett D, Aveyard P. Interventions for preventing weight
gain after smoking cessation. _Cochrane Database Syst Rev_. 2012;1:CD006219.
PMID: 22258966 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22258966.

Smokefree.gov website. Dealing with weight gain. smokefree.gov/challenges-
when-quitting/weight-gain-appetite/dealing-with-weight-gain. Accessed August
10, 2018.

Ussher MH, Taylor AH, Faulkner GE. Exercise interventions for smoking
cessation. _Cochrane Database Syst Rev_. 2014;(8):CD002295. PMID: 25170798
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25170798.

Seller RH, Symons AB. Weight gain and weight loss. In: Seller RH, Symons AB,
eds. _Differential Diagnosis of Common Complaints_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 36.

## Review Date 8/3/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Quitting Smoking
    * Weight Control

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

