Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000889.htm    
                                Description: If you are trying to lose weight, you can boost your efforts by cutting back on alcoholic drinks. Alcohol can cause weight gain in a couple of ways. First, alcohol is high in calories. Some mixed drinks    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Weight loss and alcohol

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000889.htm

# Weight loss and alcohol

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

If you are trying to lose weight, you can boost your efforts by cutting back
on alcoholic drinks. Alcohol can cause weight gain in a couple of ways. First,
alcohol is high in calories. Some mixed drinks can contain as many calories as
a meal, but without the nutrients. Second, you also may make poor food choices
when you drink.

While you do not have to cut out all alcohol if you are trying to lose weight,
you may need to make some changes. You should watch the number, and type, of
drinks you choose. You will also want to keep an eye on how drinking affects
your eating habits.

## Calories and Portions Count

So, how much can you drink if you are trying to lose weight? Health experts
recommend that anyone who drinks does so in moderation. This means no more
than 1 drink per day for women and no more than 2 drinks per day for men. You
may want to drink even less than that while dieting. Keep in mind that alcohol
has empty calories. This means it has a lot of calories (7 per gram versus 4
per gram for carbohydrate and protein) but few nutrients. So in order to drink
alcohol while cutting back on calories, you need to plan it into your daily
calorie count so you do not go over. Also remember that when you drink
alcohol, you are replacing potentially healthy, and filling, food with
calories that do not fill you up.

When choosing what to drink, you will want to choose your calories wisely.
Here is a quick comparison of some common alcoholic drinks:

    * Regular beer, about 150 calories for a 12-ounce (355 mL) glass
    * Light beer, about 100 calories for a 12-ounce (355 mL) glass
    * Wine, about 100 calories for a 5-ounce (145 mL) glass
    * Distilled alcohol (gin, rum, vodka, whiskey), about 100 calories for a 1.5-ounce (45 mL) serving
    * Martini (extra dry), about 140 calories for a 2.25-ounce (65 mL) glass
    * Pina colada, about 500 calories in a 7-ounce (205 mL) glass 

Pay attention to what else goes in your drink. Many mixed drinks include
juices, simple syrup, or liqueur, which all add extra calories. These calories
can add up quickly. Look for lower calorie options, such as a splash of juice
and soda water. You may want to skip mixed drinks completely and stick with
beer or wine.

Portion size is something else you should keep an eye on. Know what a standard
drink looks like:

    * 12 ounces (355 mL) of beer
    * 5 ounces (145 mL) of wine
    * 1.5 ounces (45 mL, or one shot) of hard liquor 

The sizes of alcoholic drinks at a restaurant or bar are often larger than the
standard amounts listed above. In some cases, 1 drink may actually have 2 or
more servings of alcohol and calories. If you are served a drink that is
larger than the standard size, skip a second drink. At home, use a jigger when
mixing drinks, and serve them in smaller glasses. It will feel like you are
having more.

## Eat Before you Drink

Drinking on an empty stomach will make you feel tipsy quicker. This can lead
to eating or drinking more than you want to. Having some food before you drink
will help your stomach absorb the alcohol more slowly and help you make better
choices.

Studies show that people tend to make poor food choices when drinking alcohol.
To avoid piling on the calories after a drink or two, have some healthy snacks
ready to eat when you get home or make plans to have a healthy meal after your
drink. Good snack choices include fruit, air-popped popcorn, or hummus and
veggies.

## Take it Slow

Just like eating too fast can lead to overeating, gulping down drinks may
cause you to drink more than you would like. Sip your drink slowly, putting it
down in between sips. When you are done, have a non-alcoholic drink, such as
water or low-calorie soda, before having more alcohol.

## Make a Plan for Drinking

The best way to control calories from drinking is to limit how much you drink.
Before you go out, set a limit for yourself and stick with it. It is OK to
turn down a drink you do not want or refuse a top-off on your wine glass. You
can skip drinking altogether and volunteer to be the designated driver.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your health care provider if:

    * You or someone you love is concerned about how much you drink.
    * You cannot control your drinking.
    * Your drinking is causing problems at home, work, or school. 

## Alternative Names

Weight loss - alcohol; Overweight - alcohol; Obesity - alcohol; Diet - alcohol

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Alcohol and public health:
frequently asked questions. www.cdc.gov/alcohol/faqs.htm. Updated March 29,
2018. Accessed July 14, 2018.

National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism. Rethinking drinking:
Alcohol and your health. rethinkingdrinking.niaaa.nih.gov. Accessed July 14,
2018.

Nielsen SJ, Kit BK, Fakhouri T, Ogden CL. Calories consumed from alcoholic
beverages by U.S. adults, 2007-2010. _NCHS Data Brief_. 2012;(110):1-8. PMID:
23384768 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23384768.

## Review Date 4/23/2018

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, The Brooklyn Hospital Center, Brooklyn, NY. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Alcohol
    * Weight Control

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

