Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000868.htm    
                                Description: Herbal remedies are plants used like a medicine. People use herbal remedies to help prevent or cure disease. They use them to get relief from symptoms, boost energy, relax, or lose weight.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

A guide to herbal remedies

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000868.htm

# A guide to herbal remedies

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Herbal remedies are plants used like a medicine. People use herbal remedies to
help prevent or cure disease. They use them to get relief from symptoms, boost
energy, relax, or lose weight.

Herbals are not regulated or tested like medicines.

How can you know what you are getting and if it is useful? This guide can help
you choose and use herbals safely.

## Herbals are not Medicines

You have to be careful when using an herbal remedy. Herbal remedies are a type
of dietary supplement. They are not medicines. Here are some things you should
know about herbals:

    * Herbals are not regulated like medicines.
    * Herbals do not need to be rigidly tested before they are sold.
    * Herbals may not work as claimed.
    * Labels do not need to be approved. It may not list the correct amount of an ingredient.
    * Some herbal remedies may contain ingredients or contaminants not listed on the label. 

## Natural Does not Mean Safe

Many people think that using plants to treat illness is safer than taking
medicine. People have been using plants in folk medicine for centuries. So it
is easy to see the appeal. Yet "natural" does not mean safe. Unless taken as
directed, some herbals can interact with other medicines or be toxic at high
doses. Also, some may cause side effects.

Here are some examples:

    * Kava is an herb used for anxiety, insomnia, symptoms of menopause, and other ailments. Some studies show it may work for anxiety. But kava can also cause severe liver damage. The FDA has issued a warning against its use.
    * St. John's Wort may work for mild to moderate depression. However, it can interact with birth control pills, antidepressants, and other drugs. It can also cause side effects such as stomach upset and anxiety.
    * Yohimbe is a bark used to treat erectile dysfunction. The bark can cause high blood pressure, increased heart rate, anxiety, and other side effects. It can interact with certain medicines for depression. Taking it in high does or for a long time can be dangerous. 

Of course, some herbals have been tested and work well for their intended
purpose. Many are also quite safe, but the word "natural" will not tell you
which ones are safe and which ones are not safe.

## How to Choose and use Herbal Remedies Safely

Some herbals can make you feel better and help keep you healthy. But you need
to be a smart consumer. Use these tips when choosing herbal remedies.

    * Look closely at the claims made about the product. How is the product described? Is it a "miracle" pill that "melts away" fat? Will it work faster than regular care? Is it a secret your health care provider and drug companies don't want you to know? Such claims are red flags. If something's too good to be true, it probably is not.
    * Remember "real-life stories" are not scientific proof. Many products are promoted with real-life stories. Even if the quote comes from a provider, there's no proof that other people will get the same results.
    * Before trying a product, talk with your provider. Ask for their opinion. Is the product safe? What are the chances it will work? Are their risks? Will it interact with other medicines? Will it interfere with your treatment?
    * Buy only from companies that have certification on the label, such as "USP Verified" or "ConsumerLab.com Approved Quality." Companies with these certifications agree to test the purity and quality of their products.
    * DO NOT give herbal supplements to children or use them if you are older than age 65 years. Talk to your provider first.
    * DO NOT use herbals without talking to your provider if you are taking any medicines.
    * DO NOT use them if you are pregnant or breastfeeding.
    * DO NOT use them if you are having surgery.
    * Always let your provider know what herbals you use. They can affect the medicines you take as well any treatment you receive.

## Where to get More Information

These sites can help you learn more about specific herbal supplements:

    * NIH MedlinePlus database of herbs and supplements -- medlineplus.gov/druginfo/herb_All.html
    * The National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health (NCCIH): Herbs at a glance -- nccih.nih.gov/health/herbsataglance.htm
    * American Cancer Society: Complementary and alternative medicine -- www.cancer.org/treatment/treatments-and-side-effects/complementary-and-alternative-medicine.html

## References

Gardiner P, Filippelli AC, Low Dog T. Prescribing botanicals. In: Rakel D, ed.
_Integrative Medicine_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 104.

National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health website. Using
dietary supplements wisely. nccih.nih.gov/health/supplements/wiseuse.htm.
Updated June 2014. Accessed August 13, 2018.

US Food & Drug Administration website. Information for consumers on using
dietary supplements.
www.fda.gov/Food/DietarySupplements/UsingDietarySupplements/default.htm.
Updated April 13, 2018. Accessed August 13, 2018.

## Review Date 8/3/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Herbal Medicine

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

