Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003396.htm    
                                Description: The visual acuity test is used to determine the smallest letters you can read on a standardized chart (Snellen chart) or a card held 20 feet (6 meters) away. Special charts are used when testing at distances    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Visual acuity test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003396.htm

# Visual acuity test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The visual acuity test is used to determine the smallest letters you can read
on a standardized chart (Snellen chart) or a card held 20 feet (6 meters)
away. Special charts are used when testing at distances shorter than 20 feet
(6 meters). Some Snellen charts are actually video monitors showing letters or
images.

## How the Test is Performed

This test may be done in a health care provider's office, a school, workplace,
or elsewhere.

You will be asked to remove your glasses or contact lenses and stand or sit 20
feet (6 meters) from the eye chart. You will keep both eyes open.

You will be asked to cover one eye with the palm of your hand, a piece of
paper, or a small paddle while you read out loud the smallest line of letters
you can see on the chart. Numbers, lines, or pictures are used for people who
cannot read, especially children.

If you are not sure of the letter, you may guess. This test is done on each
eye, and one at a time. If needed, it is repeated while you wear your glasses
or contacts. You may also be asked to read letters or numbers from a card held
14 inches (36 centimeters) from your face. This will test your near vision.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is necessary for this test.

## How the Test will Feel

There is no discomfort.

## Why the Test is Performed

The visual acuity test is a routine part of an eye examination or general
physical examination, particularly if there is a change in vision or a problem
with vision.

In children, the test is performed to screen for vision problems. Vision
problems in young children can often be corrected or improved. Undetected or
untreated problems may lead to permanent vision damage.

There are other ways to check vision in very young children, or in people who
do not know their letters or numbers.

## Normal Results

Visual acuity is expressed as a fraction.

    * The top number refers to the distance you stand from the chart. This is often 20 feet (6 meters).
    * The bottom number indicates the distance at which a person with normal eyesight could read the same line you correctly read.

For example, 20/20 is considered normal. 20/40 indicates that the line you
correctly read at 20 feet (6 meters) away can be read by a person with normal
vision from 40 feet (12 meters) away. Outside of the United States, the visual
acuity is expressed as a decimal number. For example, 20/20 is 1.0, 20/40 is
0.5, 20/80 is 0.25, 20/100 is 0.2, and so on.

Even if you miss one or two letters on the smallest line you can read, you are
still considered to have vision equal to that line.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be a sign that you need glasses or contacts. Or it may
mean that you have an eye condition that needs further evaluation by a
provider.

## Risks

There are no risks with this test.

## Alternative Names

Eye test - acuity; Vision test - acuity; Snellen test

## Images

    * ![Eye](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1094t.jpg)Eye
    * ![Visual acuity test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1124t.jpg)Visual acuity test
    * ![Normal, nearsightedness, and farsightedness](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19511t.jpg)Normal, nearsightedness, and farsightedness

## References

Feder RS, Olsen TW, Prum BE Jr, et al. Comprehensive adult medical eye
evaluation Preferred Practice Pattern guidelines. _Ophthalmology_.
2016;123(1):209-236. PMID: 26581558 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26581558.

Rubin GS. Visual acuity and contrast sensitivity. In: Schachat AP, Sadda SVR,
Hinton DR, Wilkinson CP, Wiedemann P, eds. _Ryan's Retina_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 13.

## Review Date 2/28/2019

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Refractive
Errors](https://medlineplus.gov/images/RefractiveErrors_thumb.jpg)Refractive
Errors _Read more_

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VisionImpairment3_thumb.jpg)Vision
Impairment and Blindness _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

