Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003879.htm    
                                Description: The visual field refers to the total area in which objects can be seen in the side (peripheral) vision as you focus your eyes on a central point.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Visual field

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003879.htm

# Visual field

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The visual field refers to the total area in which objects can be seen in the
side (peripheral) vision as you focus your eyes on a central point.

This article describes the test that measures your visual field.

## How the Test is Performed

**Confrontation visual field exam.** This is a quick and basic check of the
visual field. The health care provider sits directly in front of you. You will
cover one eye, and stare straight ahead with the other. You will be asked to
tell when you can see the examiner's hand.

 **Tangent screen or Goldmann field exam.** You will sit about 3 feet (90
centimeters) away from a flat, black fabric screen with a target in the
center. You will be asked to stare at the center target and let the examiner
know when you can see an object that moves into your side vision. The object
is usually a pin or bead on the end of a black stick that is moved by the
examiner. This exam creates a map of your central 30 degrees of vision. This
exam is usually used to detect brain or nerve (neurologic) problems.

 **Goldmann perimetry and Automated perimetry.** For either test, you sit in
front of a concave dome and stare at a target in the middle. You press a
button when you see small flashes of light in your peripheral vision. With
Goldman testing, the flashes are controlled and mapped out by the examiner.
With automated testing, a computer controls the flashes and mapping. Your
responses help determine if you have a defect in your visual field. Both tests
are often used to track conditions that may worsen over time.

Your provider will discuss with you the type of visual field testing to be
done.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is necessary.

## How the Test will Feel

There is no discomfort with visual field testing.

## Why the Test is Performed

This eye exam will show whether you have a loss of vision anywhere in your
visual field. The pattern of vision loss will help your provider diagnose the
cause.

## Normal Results

The peripheral vision is normal.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be due to diseases or central nervous system (CNS)
disorders, such as tumors that damage or press on (compress) the parts of the
brain that deal with vision.

Other diseases that may affect the visual field of the eye include:

    * Diabetes
    * Glaucoma (increased eye pressure)
    * High blood pressure
    * Age-related macular degeneration (eye disorder that slowly destroys sharp, central vision)
    * Multiple sclerosis (disorder that affects the CNS)
    * Optic glioma (tumor of the optic nerve)
    * Overactive thyroid (hyperthyroidism)
    * Pituitary gland disorders
    * Retinal detachment (separation of the retina in the back of the eye from its supporting layers)
    * Stroke
    * Temporal arteritis (inflammation and damage to the arteries that supply blood to the scalp and other parts of the head) 

## Risks

The test has no risks.

## Alternative Names

Perimetry; Tangent screen exam; Automated perimetry exam; Goldmann visual
field exam; Humphrey visual field exam

## Images

    * ![Eye](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1094t.jpg)Eye
    * ![Visual field test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1143t.jpg)Visual field test

## References

Budenz DL, Lind JT. Visual field testing in glaucoma. In: Yanoff M, Duker JS,
eds. _Ophthalmology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 10.5.

Feder RS, Olsen TW, Prum BE Jr, et al.; American Academy of Ophthalmology.
Comprehensive adult medical eye evaluation preferred practice pattern
guidelines. _Ophthalmology_. 2016;123(1):209-236. PMID: 26581558
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26581558.

Ramchandran RS, Sangave AA, Feldon SE. Visual fields in retinal disease. In:
Schachat AP, Sadda SVR, Hinton DR, Wilkinson CP, Wiedemann P, eds. _Ryan's
Retina_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 14.

## Review Date 2/28/2019

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VisionImpairment3_thumb.jpg)Vision
Impairment and Blindness _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

