Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003029.htm    
                                Description: There are many types of eye problems and vision disturbances, such as:     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Vision problems

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003029.htm

# Vision problems

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

There are many types of eye problems and vision disturbances, such as:

    * Halos
    * Blurred vision (the loss of sharpness of vision and the inability to see fine details)
    * Blind spots or scotomas (dark "holes" in the vision in which nothing can be seen) 

Vision loss and blindness are the most severe vision problems.

## Considerations

Regular eye checkups from an ophthalmologist or optometrist are important.
They should be done once a year if you are over age 65 years. Some experts
recommend annual eye exams starting at an earlier age.

How long you go between exams is based on how long you can wait before
detecting an eye problem that has no symptoms. Your provider will recommend
earlier and more frequent exams if you have known eye problems or conditions
that are known to cause eye problems. These include diabetes or high blood
pressure.

These important steps can prevent eye and vision problems:

    * Wear sunglasses to protect your eyes.
    * Wear safety glasses when hammering, grinding, or using power tools.
    * If you need glasses or contact lenses, keep the prescription up to date.
    * DO NOT smoke.
    * Limit how much alcohol you drink.
    * Stay at a healthy weight.
    * Keep your blood pressure and cholesterol under control.
    * Keep your blood sugar under control if you have diabetes.
    * Eat foods rich in antioxidants, like green leafy vegetables. 

## Causes

Vision changes and problems can be caused by many different conditions. Some
include:

    * Presbyopia: Difficulty focusing on objects that are close. This problem often becomes noticeable in your early to mid-40s.
    * Cataracts: Cloudiness over the eye lens, causing poor nighttime vision, halos around lights, and sensitivity to glare. Cataracts are common in older people.
    * Glaucoma: Increased pressure in the eye, which is most often painless. Vision will be normal at first, but over time you can develop poor night vision, blind spots, and a loss of vision to either side. Some types of glaucoma can also happen suddenly, which is a medical emergency.
    * Diabetic eye disease.
    * Macular degeneration: Loss of central vision, blurred vision (particularly while reading), distorted vision (straight lines will appear to be wavy), and colors that look faded. The most common cause of blindness in people over age 60 years.
    * Eye infection, inflammation, or injury
    * Floaters: Tiny particles drifting inside the eye, which may be a sign of retinal detachment.
    * Night blindness.
    * Retinal detachment: Symptoms include floaters, sparks, or flashes of light in your vision, or a sensation of a shade or curtain hanging across part of your visual field.
    * Optic neuritis: Inflammation of the optic nerve from infection or multiple sclerosis. You may have pain when you move your eye or touch it through the eyelid.
    * Stroke or TIA.
    * Brain tumor.
    * Bleeding into the eye.
    * Temporal arteritis: Inflammation of an artery in the brain that supplies blood to the optic nerve.
    * Migraine headaches: Spots of light, halos, or zigzag patterns that appear before the start of the headache.

Medicines may also affect vision.

## Home Care

See your health care provider if you have any problems with your eyesight.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Seek emergency care from a provider who is experienced in dealing with eye
emergencies if:

    * You experience partial or complete blindness in one or both eyes, even if it is only temporary.
    * You experience double vision, even if it is temporary.
    * You have a sensation of a shade being pulled over your eyes or a curtain being drawn from the side, above, or below.
    * Blind spots, halos around lights, or areas of distorted vision appear suddenly.
    * You have sudden blurred vision with eye pain, particularly if the eye is also red. A red, painful eye with blurred vision is a medical emergency. 

Get a complete eye exam if you have:

    * Trouble seeing objects on either side.
    * Difficulty seeing at night or when reading.
    * Gradual loss of the sharpness of your vision.
    * Difficulty telling colors apart.
    * Blurred vision when trying to view objects near or far.
    * Diabetes or a family history of diabetes.
    * Eye itching or discharge.
    * Vision changes that seem related to medication. (DO NOT stop or change a medicine without talking to your doctor.) 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will check your vision, eye movements, pupils, the back of your
eye (called the retina), and eye pressure. An overall medical evaluation will
be done if needed.

It will be helpful to your provider if you can describe your symptoms
accurately. Think about the following ahead of time:

    * Has the problem affected your vision?
    * Is there blurring, halos around lights, flashing lights, or blind spots?
    * Do colors seem faded?
    * Do you have pain?
    * Are you sensitive to light?
    * Do you have tearing or discharge?
    * Do you have dizziness, or does it seem like the room is spinning?
    * Do you have double vision?
    * Is the problem in one or both eyes?
    * When did this begin? Did it occur suddenly or gradually?
    * Is it constant or does it come and go?
    * How often does it occur? How long does it last?
    * When does it occur? Evening? Morning?
    * Is there anything that makes it better? Worse?

The provider will also ask you about any eye problems you have had in the
past:

    * Has this ever happened before?
    * Have you been given eye medicines?
    * Have you had eye surgery or injuries?
    * Have you recently traveled out of the country?
    * Are there new things you could be allergic to, such as soaps, sprays, lotions, creams, cosmetics, laundry products, curtains, sheets, carpets, paint, or pets?

The provider will also ask about your general health and family history:

    * Do you have any known allergies?
    * When did you last have a general checkup?
    * Are you taking any medicines?
    * Have you been diagnosed with any medical conditions, such as diabetes or high blood pressure?
    * What kinds of eye problems do your family members have?

The following tests may be performed:

    * Dilated eye exam
    * Slit-lamp examination
    * Refraction (test for glasses)
    * Tonometry (eye pressure test)

Treatments depend on the cause. Surgery may be needed for some conditions.

## Alternative Names

Vision impairment; Impaired vision; Blurred vision

## Patient Instructions

    * Cataracts - what to ask your doctor 
    * Corneal transplant - discharge 
    * Refractive corneal surgery - discharge
    * Refractive corneal surgery - what to ask your doctor

## Images

    * ![Crossed eyes](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1087t.jpg)Crossed eyes
    * ![Eye](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1094t.jpg)Eye
    * ![Visual acuity test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1124t.jpg)Visual acuity test
    * ![Slit-lamp exam](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1140t.jpg)Slit-lamp exam
    * ![Visual field test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1143t.jpg)Visual field test
    * ![Cataract - close-up of the eye](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1684t.jpg)Cataract - close-up of the eye
    * ![Cataract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19587t.jpg)Cataract

## References

Chou R, Dana T, Bougatsos C, Grusing S, Blazina I. Screening for impaired
visual acuity in older adults: updated evidence report and systematic review
for the US Preventive Services Task Force. _JAMA_. 2016;315(9):915-933. PMID:
26934261 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26934261.

Olitsky SE, Hug D, Plummer LS, Stahl ED, Ariss MM, Lindquist TP. Disorders of
vision. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson
Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 621.

Thurtell MJ, Tomsak RL. Visual loss. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC,
Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 16.

Yanoff M, Cameron JD. Diseases of the visual system. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 423.

## Review Date 8/28/2018

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VisionImpairment3_thumb.jpg)Vision
Impairment and Blindness _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

