Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001005.htm    
                                Description: Uveitis is swelling and irritation of the uvea. The uvea is the middle layer of the eye. The uvea provides most of the blood supply to the retina.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Uveitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001005.htm

# Uveitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Uveitis is swelling and irritation of the uvea. The uvea is the middle layer
of the eye. The uvea provides most of the blood supply to the retina.

## Causes

Uveitis can be caused by autoimmune disorders. These diseases occur when the
body's immune system attacks and destroys healthy body tissue by mistake.
Examples are:

    * Ankylosing spondylitis
    * Behcet disease
    * Psoriasis
    * Reactive arthritis
    * Rheumatoid arthritis
    * Sarcoidosis
    * Ulcerative colitis

Uveitis can also be caused by infections such as:

    * AIDS
    * Cytomegalovirus (CMV) retinitis
    * Herpes zoster infection
    * Histoplasmosis
    * Kawasaki disease
    * Syphilis
    * Toxoplasmosis
    * Tuberculosis

Exposure to toxins or injury can also cause uveitis. In many cases, the cause
is unknown.

The most common form of uveitis involves inflammation in the front part of the
eye. It is often called iritis because it most often only affects the iris.
The iris is the colored part of the eye. In most cases, it occurs in healthy
people. The disorder may affect only one eye. It is most common in young and
middle-aged people.

Posterior uveitis affects the back part of the eye. It involves primarily the
choroid. This is the layer of blood vessels and connective tissue in the
middle layer of the eye. This type of uveitis is called choroiditis. If the
retina is also involved, it is called chorioretinitis.

Another form of uveitis is pars planitis. Inflammation occurs in the area
called the pars plana, which is located between the iris and the choiroid.
Pars planitis most often occurs in young men. It is generally not associated
with any other disease. However, it may be linked to Crohn disease and
possibly multiple sclerosis.

## Symptoms

Uveitis can affect one or both eyes. Symptoms may develop rapidly and can
include:

    * Blurred vision
    * Dark, floating spots in the vision
    * Eye pain
    * Redness of the eye
    * Sensitivity to light

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will take a complete medical history and do an eye
exam. Lab tests may be done to rule out infection or a weak immune system.

If you are over age 25 and have pars planitis, your provider will suggest a
brain and spine MRI. This will rule out multiple sclerosis.

## Treatment

Iritis (anterior uveitis) is most often mild. Treatment may involve:

    * Dark glasses 
    * Eye drops that dilate the pupil to relieve pain 
    * Steroid eye drops 

Pars planitis is often treated with steroid eye drops. Other medicines,
including steroids taken by mouth, may be used to help suppress the immune
system.

Posterior uveitis treatment depends on the underlying cause. It almost always
includes steroids taken by mouth.

If the uveitis is caused by a body-wide (systemic) infection, you may be given
antibiotics. You may also be given powerful anti-inflammatory medicines called
corticosteroids.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

With proper treatment, most attacks of anterior uveitis go away in a few days
to weeks. However, the problem often returns.

Posterior uveitis may last from months to years. It may cause permanent vision
damage, even with treatment.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Cataracts
    * Fluid within the retina
    * Glaucoma
    * Irregular pupil
    * Retinal detachment
    * Vision loss

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Symptoms that need urgent medical care are:

    * Eye pain
    * Reduced vision

## Prevention

If you have a body-wide (systemic) infection or disease, treating the
condition may prevent uveitis.

## Alternative Names

Iritis; Pars planitis; Choroiditis; Chorioretinitis; Anterior uveitis;
Posterior uveitis; Iridocyclitis

## Images

    * ![Eye](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1094t.jpg)Eye
    * ![Visual field test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1143t.jpg)Visual field test

## References

Durand ML. Infectious causes of uveitis. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ,
eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 117.

Gery I, Chan C-C. Mechanisms of uveitis. In: Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds.
_Ophthalmology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 7.2.

Read RW. General approach to the uveitis patient and treatment strategies. In:
Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds. _Ophthalmology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 7.3.

Yanoff M, Cameron JD. Diseases of the visual system. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 423.

## Review Date 8/28/2018

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Ankylosing
Spondylitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AnkylosingSpondylitis_thumb.jpg)Ankylosing
Spondylitis _Read more_

![Behcet's
Syndrome](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BehcetsSyndrome_thumb.jpg)Behcet's
Syndrome _Read more_

![Eye Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EyeDiseases_thumb.jpg)Eye
Diseases _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

