Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003040.htm    
                                Description: Blindness is a lack of vision. It may also refer to a loss of vision that cannot be corrected with glasses or contact lenses.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Blindness and vision loss

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003040.htm

# Blindness and vision loss

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Blindness is a lack of vision. It may also refer to a loss of vision that
cannot be corrected with glasses or contact lenses.

    * Partial blindness means you have very limited vision.
    * Complete blindness means you cannot see anything and DO NOT see light. (Most people who use the term "blindness" mean complete blindness.) 

People with vision that is worse than 20/200 with glasses or contact lenses
are considered legally blind in most states in the United States.

Vision loss refers to the partial or complete loss of vision. This vision loss
may happen suddenly or over a period of time.

Some types of vision loss never lead to complete blindness.

## Causes

Vision loss has many causes. In the United States, the leading causes are:

    * Accidents or injuries to the surface of the eye (chemical burns or sports injuries)
    * Diabetes
    * Glaucoma
    * Macular degeneration

The type of partial vision loss may differ, depending on the cause:

    * With cataracts, vision may be cloudy or fuzzy, and bright light may cause glare
    * With diabetes, vision may be blurred, there may be shadows or missing areas of vision, and difficulty seeing at night
    * With glaucoma, there may be tunnel vision and missing areas of vision
    * With macular degeneration, the side vision is normal, but the central vision is slowly lost 

Other causes of vision loss include:

    * Blocked blood vessels
    * Complications of premature birth (retrolental fibroplasia)
    * Complications of eye surgery
    * Lazy eye
    * Optic neuritis
    * Stroke
    * Retinitis pigmentosa
    * Tumors, such as retinoblastoma and optic glioma

Total blindness (no light perception) is often due to:

    * Severe trauma or injury
    * Complete retinal detachment
    * End-stage glaucoma
    * End stage diabetic retinopathy
    * Severe internal eye infection (endophthalmitis)
    * Vascular occlusion (stroke in the eye) 

## Home Care

When you have low vision, you may have trouble driving, reading, or doing
small tasks such as sewing or making crafts. You can make changes in your home
and routines that help you stay safe and independent. Many services will
provide you with the training and support you need to live independently,
including the use of low vision aids.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Sudden vision loss is always an emergency, even if you have not completely
lost vision. You should never ignore vision loss, thinking it will get better.

Contact an ophthalmologist or go to the emergency room immediately. Most
serious forms of vision loss are painless, and the absence of pain in no way
diminishes the urgent need to get medical care. Many forms of vision loss only
give you a short amount of time to be successfully treated.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your health care provider will do a complete eye exam. The treatment will
depend on the cause of the vision loss.

For long-term vision loss, see a low-vision specialist, who can help you learn
to care for yourself and live a full life.

## Alternative Names

Loss of vision; No light perception (NLP); Low vision; Vision loss and
blindness

## Images

    * ![Neurofibromatosis I, enlarged optic foramen](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1276t.jpg)Neurofibromatosis I, enlarged optic foramen

## References

Colenbrander A, Fletcher DC, Schoessow K. Vision rehabilitation. In: Kellerman
RD, Bope ET, eds. _Conn's Current Therapy 2018_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2018:486-490.

Olitsky SE, Hug D, Plummer LS, Stahl, ED, Ariss MM, Lindquist TP. Disorders of
vision. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson
Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 621.

Yanoff M, Cameron D. Diseases of the visual system. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI,
eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 423.

## Review Date 8/28/2018

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VisionImpairment3_thumb.jpg)Vision
Impairment and Blindness _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

