Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/anatomyvideos/000109.htm    
                                Description: The eye is the organ of sight and is shaped as a slightly irregular hollow sphere. Various structures in the eye enable it to translate light into recognizable images. Among these are the cornea, the lens,    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Videos & Tools ->

Health Videos ->

Seeing

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/anatomyvideos/000109.htm

# Seeing

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Play health video: //medlineplus.gov/ency/videos/mov/200013_eng.mp4

What's this?Play health video with audio description:
//medlineplus.gov/ency/videos/mov/200013_eng_ad.mp4

## Overview

The eye is the organ of sight and is shaped as a slightly irregular hollow
sphere. Various structures in the eye enable it to translate light into
recognizable images. Among these are the cornea, the lens, and the retina.

Light first passes through the cornea, a clear dome-like structure covering
the iris, or colored part, of the eye. The cornea bends, or refracts, the
light onto the lens. The light is then refracted a second time while passing
through the lens, finally focusing on the retina. The retina is the light
sensitive part of the eye. Impulses travel down the optic nerve to the
occipital lobe of the brain, which then interprets the image in the correct
perspective.

The shape of the eye is very important in keeping the things we see in focus.
If the shape of the eye changes, it affects a person's vision.

Normally, light is precisely focused onto the retina at a location called the
focal point. A nearsighted eye is longer from front to back than a normal eye
causing light to be focused in front of the retina instead of directly onto
it. This makes it difficult to see objects that are far away. Glasses with
concave lenses are used to correct nearsightedness. The concave lens focuses
light back onto the focal point of the retina.

Farsightedness occurs when the length of the eye is too short. Light is
focused at a point behind the retina, making it difficult to see objects that
are up close. A convex lens is used to correct farsightedness because it
directs the focal point back onto the retina.

## Review Date 8/28/2018

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Vision Impairment and Blindness

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

