Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003039.htm    
                                Description: Night blindness is poor vision at night or in dim light.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Vision - night blindness

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003039.htm

# Vision - night blindness

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Night blindness is poor vision at night or in dim light.

## Considerations

Night blindness may cause problems with driving at night. People with night
blindness often have trouble seeing stars on a clear night or walking through
a dark room, such as a movie theater.

These problems are often worse just after a person is in a brightly lit
environment. Milder cases may just have a harder time adapting to darkness.

## Causes

The causes of night blindness fall into 2 categories: treatable and
nontreatable.

Treatable causes:

    * Cataracts
    * Nearsightedness
    * Use of certain drugs
    * Vitamin A deficiency (rare)

Nontreatable causes:

    * Birth defects, particularly congenital stationary night blindness
    * Retinitis pigmentosa

## Home Care

Take safety measures to prevent accidents in areas of low light. Avoid driving
a car at night, unless you get your eye doctor's approval.

Vitamin A supplements may be helpful if you have a vitamin A deficiency. Ask
your health care provider.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

It is important to have a complete eye exam to determine the cause, which may
be treatable. Call your eye doctor if symptoms of night blindness persist or
significantly affect your life.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will examine you and your eyes. The goal of the medical exam is
to determine if the problem can be corrected (for example, with new glasses or
cataract removal), or if the problem is due to something that is not
treatable.

The provider may ask you questions, including:

    * How severe is the night blindness?
    * When did your symptoms start?
    * Did it occur suddenly or gradually?
    * Does it happen all the time?
    * Does using corrective lenses improve night vision?
    * Have you ever had eye surgery?
    * What medicines do you use?
    * How is your diet?
    * Have you recently injured your eyes or head?
    * Do you have a family history of diabetes?
    * Do you have other vision changes?
    * What other symptoms do you have?
    * Do you have unusual stress, anxiety, or a fear of the dark? 

The eye exam will include:

    * Color vision testing
    * Pupil light reflex
    * Refraction
    * Retinal exam
    * Slit lamp examination
    * Visual acuity 

Other tests may be done:

    * Electroretinogram (ERG)
    * Visual field

## Alternative Names

Nyctanopia; Nyctalopia; Night blindness

## Images

    * ![External and internal eye anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8867t.jpg)External and internal eye anatomy

## References

Cukras CA, Zein WM, Caruso RC, Sieving PA. Progressive and "stationary"
inherited retinal degenerations. In: Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds. _Ophthalmology_.
5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 6.14.

Thurtell MJ, Tomsak RL. Visual loss. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC,
Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 16.

Yanoff M, Cameron JD. Diseases of the visual system. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 423.

## Review Date 8/28/2018

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VisionImpairment3_thumb.jpg)Vision
Impairment and Blindness _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

