Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/blood-differential/    
                                Description: Learn about blood differential testing, which measures white blood cells and helps diagnose infections, immune diseases, cancer and other disorders    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Blood Differential

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/blood-differential/

# Blood Differential

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a blood differential test?

A blood differential test measures the amount of each type of white blood cell
(WBC) that you have in your body. White blood cells (leukocytes) are part of
your immune system, a network of cells, tissues, and organs that work together
to protect you from infection. There are five different types of white blood
cells:

    *  **Neutrophils** are the most common type of white blood cell. These cells travel to the site of an infection and release substances called enzymes to fight off invading viruses or bacteria.
    *  **Lymphocytes**. There are two main types of lymphocytes: B cells and T cells. B cells fight off _invading_ viruses, bacteria, or toxins. T cells target and destroy the body's _own_ cells that have been infected by viruses or cancer cells.
    *  **Monocytes** remove foreign material, remove dead cells, and boost the body's immune response.
    *  **Eosinophils** fight infection, inflammation, and allergic reactions. They also defend the body against parasites and bacteria.
    *  **Basophils** release enzymes to help control allergic reactions and asthma attacks.

However, your test results may have more than five numbers. For example, the
lab may list the results as counts as well as percentages.

Other names for a blood differential test: Complete blood count (CBC) with
differential, Differential, White blood cell differential count, Leukocyte
differential count

## What is it used for?

The blood differential test is used to diagnose a variety of medical
conditions. These may include infections, autoimmune diseases, anemia,
inflammatory diseases, and leukemia and other types of cancer. It is a common
test that is frequently used as part of a general physical exam.

## Why do I need a blood differential test?

A blood differential test is used for many reasons. Your doctor may have
ordered the test to:

    * Monitor your overall health or as part of a routine checkup
    * Diagnose a medical condition. If you are feeling unusually tired or weak, or have unexplained bruising or other symptoms, this test may help uncover the cause.
    * Keep track of an existing blood disorder or related condition

## What happens during a blood differential test?

A health care professional will take a sample of your blood by using a small
needle to draw blood from a vein in your arm. The needle is attached to a test
tube, which will store your sample. When the tube is full, the needle will be
removed from your arm. You may feel a little sting when the needle goes in or
out. This usually takes less than five minutes.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You don't need any special preparations for a blood differential test.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms usually go
away quickly.

## What do the results mean?

There are many reasons your blood differential test results may be outside the
normal range. A high white blood cell count may indicate an infection, immune
disorder, or allergic reaction. A low count may be caused by bone marrow
problems, medication reactions, or cancer. But abnormal results don't always
indicate a condition needing medical treatment. Factors such as exercise,
diet, alcohol level, medicines, and even a woman's menstrual cycle can affect
the results. If the results seem abnormal, more specific tests may be ordered
to help figure out the cause. To learn what your results mean, talk to your
healthcare provider.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about a blood differential test?

Use of certain steroids may increase your white blood cell count, which can
lead to an abnormal result in your blood differential test.

## References

    1. Busti A. Average Increases in White Blood Cell (WBC) Counts with Glucocorticoids (e.g., Dexamethasone, Methylprednisolone, and Prednisone). Evidence Based Medicine Consult [Internet]. 2015 Oct [cited 2017 Jan 25]. Available from: http://www.ebmconsult.com/articles/glucocorticoid-wbc-increase-steroids
    2. Mayo Clinic [Internet].Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998-2017.Complete Blood Count (CBC): Results; 2016 Oct 18 [cited 2017 Jan 25]; [about 6 screens]. Available from: http://www.mayoclinic.org/tests-procedures/complete-blood-count/details/results/rsc-20257186
    3. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998-2017. Complete Blood Count (CBC): Why it's done; 2016 Oct 18 [cited 2017 Jan 25]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: http://www.mayoclinic.org/tests-procedures/complete-blood-count/details/why-its-done/icc-20257174
    4. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms: basophil; [cited 2017 Jan 25]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/publications/dictionaries/cancer-terms?cdrid=46517
    5. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms: eosinophil; [cited 2017 Jan 25]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/publications/dictionaries/cancer-terms?search=Eosinophil
    6. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms: immune system; [cited 2017 Jan 25]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/publications/dictionaries/cancer-terms/def/immune-system
    7. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms: lymphocyte [cited 2017 Jan 25]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/publications/dictionaries/cancer-terms?search=lymphocyte
    8. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms: monocyte [cited 2017 Jan 25]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/publications/dictionaries/cancer-terms?cdrid=46282
    9. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms: neutrophil [cited 2017 Jan 25]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/publications/dictionaries/cancer-terms?cdrid=46270
    10. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Types of Blood Tests; [updated 2012 Jan 6; cited 2017 Jan 25]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests#Types
    11. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What Are the Risks of Blood Tests? [updated 2012 Jan 6; cited 2017 Jan 25]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests#Risk-Factors
    12. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What Do Blood Tests Show? [updated 2012 Jan 6; cited 2017 Jan 25]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    13. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What To Expect with Blood Tests; [updated 2012 Jan 6; cited 2017 Jan 25]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    14. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Your Guide to Anemia; [cited 2017 Jan 25]; [about 9 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/files/docs/public/blood/anemia-yg.pdf
    15. Walker H, Hall D, Hurst J. Clinical Methods The History, Physical, and Laboratory Examinations. [Internet]. 3rd Ed Atlanta GA): Emory University School of Medicine; c1990. Chapter 153, Blumenreich MS. The White Blood Cell and Differential Count.[cited 2017 Jan 25]; [about 1 screen]. Available from: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK261/#A4533

## Related Health Topics

    * Anemia
    * Autoimmune Diseases
    * Blood Count Tests
    * Leukemia

## Related Lab Test Information

    * How to Understand Your Lab Results

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 27 March 2020 Page last reviewed: 27 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

