Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/rdw-red-cell-distribution-width/    
                                Description: Learn more about RDW tests, which measure the size and volume of your red blood cells and can help diagnose anemia and other blood disorders    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

RDW (Red Cell Distribution Width)

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/rdw-red-cell-distribution-
width/

# RDW (Red Cell Distribution Width)

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a red cell distribution width test?

A red cell distribution width (RDW) test is a measurement of the range in the
volume and size of your red blood cells (erythrocytes). Red blood cells move
oxygen from your lungs to every cell in your body. Your cells need oxygen to
grow, reproduce, and stay healthy. If your red blood cells are larger than
normal, it could indicate a medical problem.

Other names: RDW-SD (standard deviation) test, Erythrocyte Distribution Width

## What is it used for?

The RDW blood test is often part of a complete blood count (CBC), a test that
measures many different components of your blood, including red cells. The RDW
test is commonly used to diagnose anemia, a condition in which your red blood
cells can't carry enough oxygen to the rest of your body. The RDW test may
also be used to diagnose:

    * Other blood disorders such as thalassemia, an inherited disease that can cause severe anemia
    * Medical conditions such as heart disease, diabetes, liver disease, and cancer, especially colorectal cancer.

## Why do I need an RDW test?

Your health care provider may have ordered a complete blood count, which
includes an RDW test, as part of a routine exam, or if you have:

    * Symptoms of anemia, including weakness, dizziness, pale skin, and cold hands and feet
    * A family history of thalassemia, sickle cell anemia or other inherited blood disorder
    * A chronic illness such as Crohn's disease, diabetes or HIV/AIDS
    * A diet low in iron and minerals
    * A long-term infection
    * Excessive blood loss from an injury or surgical procedure

## What happens during an RDW test?

A health care professional will take a sample of your blood by using a small
needle to draw blood from a vein in your arm. The needle is attached to a test
tube, which will store your sample. When the tube is full, the needle will be
removed from your arm. You may feel a little sting when the needle goes in or
out. This usually takes less than five minutes.

After the needle is removed, you'll be given a bandage or a piece of gauze to
press over the site for a minute or two to help stop the bleeding. You may
want to keep the bandage on for a couple of hours.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You don't need any special preparations for a RDW test. If your health care
provider has also ordered other blood tests, you may need to fast (not eat or
drink) for several hours before the test. Your health care provider will let
you know if there are any special instructions to follow.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

## What do the results mean?

RDW results help your health care provider understand how much your red blood
cells vary in size and volume. Even if your RDW results are normal, you may
still have a medical condition needing treatment. That's why RDW results are
usually combined with other blood measurements. This combination of results
can provide a more complete picture of the health of your red blood cells and
can help diagnose a variety of conditions, including:

    * Iron deficiency
    * Different types of anemia
    * Thalassemia
    * Sickle cell anemia
    * Chronic liver disease
    * Kidney disease
    * Colorectal Cancer

Most likely your doctor will need further tests to confirm a diagnosis.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about a red cell distribution width
test?

If your test results indicate you have a chronic blood disorder, such as
anemia, you may be put on a treatment plan to increase the amount of oxygen
that your red blood cells can carry. Depending on your specific condition,
your doctor may recommend iron supplements, medications, and/or changes in
your diet.

Be sure to talk to your doctor before taking any supplements or making any
changes in your eating plan.

## References

    1. Lee H, Kong S, Sohn Y, Shim H, Youn H, Lee S, Kim H, Eom H. Elevated Red Blood Cell Distribution Width as a Simple Prognostic Factor in Patients with Symptomatic Multiple Myeloma. Biomed Research International [Internet]. 2014 May 21 [cited 2017 Jan 24]; 2014(Article ID 145619, 8 pages). Available from: https://www.hindawi.com/journals/bmri/2014/145619/cta/
    2. Mayo Clinic [Internet].Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998-2017. Macrocytosis: What causes it? 2015 Mar 26 [cited 2017 Jan 24]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: http://www.mayoclinic.org/macrocytosis/expert-answers/faq-20058234
    3. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; How Are Thalessemias Diagnosed? [updated 2012 Jul 3; cited 2017 Jan 24]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health/health-topics/topics/thalassemia/
    4. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; How is Anemia Treated? [updated 2012 May 18; cited 2017 Jan 24]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/anemia#Treatment
    5. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Types of Blood Tests; [updated 2012 Jan 6; cited 2017 Jan 24]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests#Types
    6. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What Are Thalessemias; [updated 2012 Jul 3; cited 2017 Jan 24]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health/health-topics/topics/thalassemia/
    7. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What Are the Risks of Blood Tests? [updated 2012 Jan 6; cited 2017 Jan 24]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests#Risk-Factors
    8. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What Are the Signs and Symptoms of Anemia? [updated 2012 May 18; cited 2017 Jan 24]; [about 3 screens]. Available from:Â https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/anemia#Signs,-Symptoms,-and-Complications
    9. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What is Anemia? [updated 2012 May 318; cited 2017 Jan 24]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/anemia
    10. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What To Expect with Blood Tests; [updated 2012 Jan 6; cited 2017 Jan 24]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests#Risk-Factors
    11. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Who Is At Risk for Anemia? [updated 2012 May 18; cited 2017 Jan 24]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/anemia#Risk-Factors
    12. NIH Clinical Center: America's Research Hospital [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; NIH Clinical Center Patient Education Materials: Understanding your complete blood count (CBC) and common blood deficiencies; [cited 2017 Jan 24]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.cc.nih.gov/ccc/patient_education/pepubs/cbc.pdf
    13. Salvagno G, Sanchis-Gomar F, Picanza A, Lippi G. Red blood cell distribution width: A simple parameter with multiple clinical applications. Critical Reviews in Laboratory Science [Internet]. 2014 Dec 23 [cited 2017 Jan 24]; 52 (2): 86-105. Available from: http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.3109/10408363.2014.992064
    14. Song Y, Huang Z, Kang Y, Lin Z, Lu P, Cai Z, Â Cao Y, ZHuX. Clinical Usefulness and Prognostic Value of Red Cell Distribution Width in Colorectal Cancer. Biomed Res Int [Internet]. 2018 Dec [cited 2019 Jan 27]; 2018 Article ID, 9858943. Available from: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6311266
    15. Thame M, Grandison Y, Mason K Higgs D, Morris J, Serjeant B, Serjeant G. The red cell distribution width in sickle cell disease--is it of clinical value? International Journal of Laboratory Hematology [Internet]. 1991 Sep [cited 2017 Jan 24]; 13 (3): 229-237. Available from: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/wol1/doi/10.1111/j.1365-2257.1991.tb00277.x/abstract

## Related Health Topics

    * Anemia
    * Blood Count Tests
    * Sickle Cell Disease
    * Thalassemia

## Related Lab Test Information

    * How to Understand Your Lab Results

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 25 March 2020 Page last reviewed: 25 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

