Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003637.htm    
                                Description: Reticulocytes are slightly immature red blood cells. A reticulocyte count is a blood test that measures the amount of these cells in the blood.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Reticulocyte count

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003637.htm

# Reticulocyte count

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Reticulocytes are slightly immature red blood cells. A reticulocyte count is a
blood test that measures the amount of these cells in the blood.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is necessary.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or a slight bruise. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

The test is done to determine if red blood cells are being created in the bone
marrow at an appropriate rate. The number of reticulocytes in the blood is a
sign of how quickly they are being produced and released by the bone marrow.

## Normal Results

A normal result for healthy adults who are not anemic is around 0.5% (0.005 Ã
10-3) to 2.5% (0.025 Ã 10-3).

The normal range depends on your level of hemoglobin. Hemoglobin is a protein
in red blood cells that carries oxygen. The range is higher if hemoglobin is
low, from bleeding or if red cells are destroyed.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your health care
provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A higher than normal reticulocytes count may indicate:

    * Anemia due to red blood cells being destroyed earlier than normal (hemolytic anemia)
    * Bleeding
    * Blood disorder in a fetus or newborn (erythroblastosis fetalis)
    * Kidney disease, with increased production of a hormone called erythropoietin

A lower than normal reticulocyte count may indicate:

    * Bone marrow failure (for example, from a certain drug, tumor, radiation therapy, or infection)
    * Cirrhosis of the liver
    * Anemia caused by low iron levels, or low levels of vitamin B12 or folate
    * Chronic kidney disease

Reticulocyte count may be higher during pregnancy.

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another and from one side of the body to the
other. Taking blood from some people may be more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Hematoma (blood buildup under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

## Alternative Names

Anemia - reticulocyte

## Images

    * ![Reticulocytes](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1491t.jpg)Reticulocytes

## References

Bope ET, Kellerman RD. Hematology. In: Bope ET, Kellerman RD, eds. _Conn's
Current Therapy 2016_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 12.

Bunn HF. Approach to the anemias. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 158.

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Reticulocyte count â blood. In: Chernecky CC,
Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2013:980-981.

## Review Date 2/18/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![A photo of purple topped vacutainer blood collection
tubes](https://medlineplus.gov/images/purple-topped-vacutainer-blood-
collection-tubes-contain-the-anticoagulant-359x544_thumb.jpg)Blood Count Tests
_Read more_

![Bone Marrow
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BoneMarrowDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bone
Marrow Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

