Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003647.htm    
                                Description: A platelet count is a lab test to measure how many platelets you have in your blood. Platelets are parts of the blood that helps the blood clot. They are smaller than red or white blood cells.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Platelet count

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003647.htm

# Platelet count

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A platelet count is a lab test to measure how many platelets you have in your
blood. Platelets are parts of the blood that helps the blood clot. They are
smaller than red or white blood cells.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Most of the time you do not need to take special steps before this test.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or slight bruising. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

The number of platelets in your blood can be affected by many diseases.
Platelets may be counted to monitor or diagnose diseases, or to look for the
cause of too much bleeding or clotting.

## Normal Results

The normal number of platelets in the blood is 150,000 to 400,000 platelets
per microliter (mcL) or 150 to 400 Ã 109/L.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly. Some lab use different measurements or
may test different specimens. Talk to your doctor about your test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

LOW PLATELET COUNT

A low platelet count is below 150,000 (150 Ã 109/L). If your platelet count
is below 50,000 (50 Ã 109/L), your risk of bleeding is high. Even every day
activities can cause bleeding.

A lower-than-normal platelet count is called thrombocytopenia. Low platelet
count can be divided into 3 main causes:

    * Not enough platelets are being made in the bone marrow
    * Platelets are being destroyed in the bloodstream
    * Platelets are being destroyed in the spleen or liver 

Three of the more common causes of this problem are:

    * Cancer treatments, such as chemotherapy or radiation
    * Drugs and medicines
    * Autoimmune disorders, in which the immune system mistakenly attacks and destroys healthy body tissue, such as platelets 

If your platelets are low, talk to your health care provider about how to
prevent bleeding and what to do if you are bleeding.

HIGH PLATELET COUNT

A high platelet count is 400,000 (400 Ã 109/L) or above

A higher-than-normal number of platelets is called thrombocytosis. It means
your body is making too many platelets. Causes may include:

    * A type of anemia in which red blood cells in the blood are destroyed earlier than normal (hemolytic anemia)
    * Iron deficiency
    * After certain infections, major surgery or trauma
    * Cancer
    * Certain medicines
    * Bone marrow disease calledÂ myeloproliferative neoplasm (which includesÂ polycythemia vera)
    * Spleen removal 

Some people with high platelet counts may be at risk of forming blood clotsÂ
or even bleeding too much. Blood clots can lead to serious medical problems.

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another, and from one side of the body to the
other. Obtaining a blood sample from some people may be more difficult than
from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

## Alternative Names

Thrombocyte count

## Patient Instructions

    * Deep vein thrombosis - discharge

## References

Cantor AB. Thrombocytopoiesis. In: Hoffman R, Benz EJ, Silberstein LE, et al,
eds. _Hematology: Basic Principles and Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 28.

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Platelet (thrombocyte) count - blood. In: Chernecky
CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:886-887.

## Review Date 1/29/2019

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![A photo of purple topped vacutainer blood collection
tubes](https://medlineplus.gov/images/purple-topped-vacutainer-blood-
collection-tubes-contain-the-anticoagulant-359x544_thumb.jpg)Blood Count Tests
_Read more_

![Platelet
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PlateletDisorders_thumb.jpg)Platelet
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

