Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/complete-blood-count-cbc/    
                                Description: A complete blood count is often part of a routine exam and is used to measure different parts and features of your blood. Learn more about this test.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Complete Blood Count (CBC)

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/complete-blood-count-cbc/

# Complete Blood Count (CBC)

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a complete blood count?

A complete blood count or CBC is a blood test that measures many different
parts and features of your blood, including:

    *  **Red blood cells** , which carry oxygen from your lungs to the rest of your body
    *  **White blood cells** , which fight infection. There are five major types of white blood cells. A CBC test measures the total number of white cells in your blood. A test called a **CBC with differential** also measures the number of each type of these white blood cells
    *  **Platelets** , which help your blood to clot and stop bleeding
    *  **Hemoglobin** , a protein in red blood cells that carries oxygen from your lungs and to the rest of your body
    *  **Hematocrit** , a measurement of how much of your blood is made up of red blood

A complete blood count may also include measurements of chemicals and other
substances in your blood. These results can give your health care provider
important information about your overall health and risk for certain diseases.

Other names for a complete blood count: CBC, full blood count, blood cell
count

## What is it used for?

A complete blood count is a commonly performed blood test that is often
included as part of a routine checkup. Complete blood counts can be used to
help detect a variety of disorders including infections, anemia, diseases of
the immune system, and blood cancers.

## Why do I need a complete blood count?

Your health care provider may have ordered a complete blood count as part of
your checkup or to monitor your overall health. In addition, the test may be
used to:

    * Diagnose a blood disease, infection, immune system and disorder, or other medical conditions
    * Keep track of an existing blood disorder

## What happens during a complete blood count?

A health care professional will take a blood sample from a vein in your arm,
using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a small amount of blood
will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel a little sting when
the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than five minutes.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You don't need any special preparations for a complete blood count. If your
health care provider has also ordered other blood tests, you may need to fast
(not eat or drink) for several hours before the test. Your health care
provider will let you know if there are any special instructions to follow.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

## What do the results mean?

A CBC counts the cells and measures the levels of different substances in your
blood. There are many reasons your levels may fall outside the normal range.
For instance:

    * Abnormal red blood cell, hemoglobin, or hematocrit levels may indicate anemia, iron deficiency, or heart disease
    * Low white cell count may indicate an autoimmune disorder, bone marrow disorder, or cancer
    * High white cell count may indicate an infection or reaction to medication

If any of your levels are abnormal, it does not necessarily indicate a medical
problem needing treatment. Diet, activity level, medications, a women's
menstrual cycle, and other considerations can affect the results. Talk to your
health care provider to learn what your results mean.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about a complete blood count?

A complete blood count is only one tool your health care provider uses to
learn about your health. Your medical history, symptoms, and other factors
will be considered before a diagnosis. Additional testing and follow-up care
may also be recommended.

## References

    1. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998-2017. Complete Blood Count (CBC): Overview; 2016 Oct 18 [cited 2017 Jan 30]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: http://www.mayoclinic.org/tests-procedures/complete-blood-count/home/ovc-20257165
    2. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998-2017. Complete Blood Count (CBC): Results; 2016 Oct 18 [cited 2017 Jan 30]; [about 8 screens]. Available from: http://www.mayoclinic.org/tests-procedures/complete-blood-count/details/results/rsc-20257186
    3. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998-2017. Complete Blood Count (CBC): Why it's done; 2016 Oct 18 [cited 2017 Jan 30]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: http://www.mayoclinic.org/tests-procedures/complete-blood-count/details/why-its-done/icc-20257174
    4. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms: complete blood count [cited 2017 Jan 30]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/publications/dictionaries/cancer-terms?CdrID=45107
    5. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Types of Blood Tests; [updated 2012 Jan 6; cited 2017 Jan 30]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests#Types
    6. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What Are the Risks of Blood Tests? [updated 2012 Jan 6; cited 2017 Jan 30]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests#Risk-Factors
    7. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What Do Blood Tests Show? [updated 2012 Jan 6; cited 2017 Jan 30]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    8. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What To Expect with Blood Tests; [updated 2012 Jan 6; cited 2017 Jan 30]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    9. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Your Guide to Anemia; [cited 2017 Jan 30]; [about 9 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/files/docs/public/blood/anemia-yg.pdf

## Related Health Topics

    * Bleeding Disorders
    * Blood Count Tests
    * Blood Disorders

## Related Lab Test Information

    * How to Understand Your Lab Results

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 24 March 2020 Page last reviewed: 24 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

