Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003371.htm    
                                Description: Hemoglobin derivatives are altered forms of hemoglobin. Hemoglobin is a protein in red blood cells that moves oxygen and carbon dioxide between the lungs and body tissues.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hemoglobin derivatives

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003371.htm

# Hemoglobin derivatives

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hemoglobin derivatives are altered forms of hemoglobin. Hemoglobin is a
protein in red blood cells that moves oxygen and carbon dioxide between the
lungs and body tissues.

This article discusses the test used to detect and measure the amount of
hemoglobin derivatives in your blood.

## How the Test is Performed

The test is done using a small needle to collect a sample of blood from a vein
or an artery. The sample may be collected from a vein or artery in the wrist,
groin, or arm.

Before blood is drawn, the health care provider may test circulation to the
hand (if the wrist is the site). After the blood is drawn, pressure applied to
the puncture site for a few minutes stops the bleeding.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is needed.

For children, it may help to explain how the test will feel and why it is
done. This may make the child feel less nervous.

## How the Test will Feel

You may feel slight pain or a sting when the needle is inserted. You may also
feel some throbbing at the site after the blood is drawn.

## Why the Test is Performed

The carboxyhemoglobin test is used to diagnose carbon monoxide poisoning. It
is also used to detect changes in hemoglobin that may result from certain
drugs. Some chemicals or drugs can change the hemoglobin so it no longer works
properly.

Abnormal forms of hemoglobin include:

    * Carboxyhemoglobin: An abnormal form of hemoglobin that has attached to carbon monoxide instead of oxygen or carbon dioxide. High amounts of this type of abnormal hemoglobin prevent the normal movement of oxygen by the blood.
    * Sulfhemoglobin: A rare abnormal form of hemoglobin that can't carry oxygen. It may result from certain medicines such as dapsone, metoclopramide, nitratesÂ or sulfonamides.
    * Methemoglobin: A problem that occurs when the iron that is part of hemoglobin is changed so that it does not carry oxygen well. Certain drugs and other compounds such as nitrites introduced into the blood stream can cause this problem.

## Normal Results

The following values represent the percentage of hemoglobin derivatives based
on total hemoglobin:

    * Carboxyhemoglobin -- less than 1.5% (but may be as high as 9% in smokers)
    * Methemoglobin -- less than 2%
    * Sulfhemoglobin -- undetectable 

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk to
your provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

The examples above show the common measurements for results for these tests.
Some laboratories use different measurements or may test different specimens.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

High levels of hemoglobin derivatives can lead to major health problems. The
altered forms of hemoglobin do not allow oxygen to be moved properly through
the body. This can lead to tissue death.

The following values, except sulfhemoglobin, represent the percentage of
hemoglobin derivatives based on total hemoglobin.

Carboxyhemoglobin:

    * 10% to 20% -- symptoms of carbon monoxide poisoning begin to appear
    * 30% -- severe carbon monoxide poisoning present
    * 50% to 80% -- results in potentially deadly carbon monoxide poisoning 

Methemoglobin:

    * 10% to 25% -- results in bluish skin color (cyanosis)
    * 35% to 40% -- results in shortness of breath and headache
    * Over 60% -- results in lethargy and stupor
    * Over 70% -- may result in death 

Sulfhemoglobin:

    * Values of 10 grams per deciliter (g/dL) or 6.2 millimoles per liter (mmol/L) cause bluish skin color due to lack of oxygen (cyanosis), but do not cause harmful effects most of the time. 

## Alternative Names

Methemoglobin; Carboxyhemoglobin; Sulfhemoglobin

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Benz EJ, Ebert BL. Hemoglobin variants associated with hemolytic anemia,
altered oxygen affinity, and methemoglobinemias. In: Hoffman R, Benz EJ,
Silberstein LE, et al, eds. _Hematology: Basic Principles and Practice_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 43.

Bunn HF. Approach to the anemias. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 158.

Christiani DC. Physical and chemical injuries of the lung. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 94.

Nelson LS, Ford MD. Acute poisoning. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 110.

Vajpayee N, Graham SS, Bem S. Basic examination of blood and bone marrow. In:
McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by
Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 30.

## Review Date 4/26/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![A photo of purple topped vacutainer blood collection
tubes](https://medlineplus.gov/images/purple-topped-vacutainer-blood-
collection-tubes-contain-the-anticoagulant-359x544_thumb.jpg)Blood Count Tests
_Read more_

![Carbon Monoxide
Poisoning](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CarbonMonoxidePoisoning_thumb.jpg)Carbon
Monoxide Poisoning _Read more_

![Poisoning](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Poisoning_thumb.jpg)Poisoning
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

