Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002847.htm    
                                Description: Bee poisoning is caused by a sting from a bee, wasp, or yellow jacket.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bee poison

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002847.htm

# Bee poison

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Bee poisoning is caused by a sting from a bee, wasp, or yellow jacket.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual poisoning from a sting. If you or someone you are with is stung, call
your local emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be
reached directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

Bee, wasp, hornet, and yellow jacket stings contain a substance called venom.
Africanized bee colonies are very sensitive to being disturbed. When they are
disturbed, they respond faster and in greater numbers than other types of
bees. They are also much more likely to sting than European bees.

## Where Found

Bee, wasp, hornet, and yellow jacket venom can cause an allergic reaction in
some people.

## Symptoms

A reaction to a sting may include these symptoms in different parts of the
body:

EYES, EARS, NOSE, AND THROAT

    * Swelling in the throat, lips, and mouth *

GASTROINTESTINAL

    * Abdominal cramping
    * Diarrhea
    * Nausea and vomiting 

HEART AND BLOOD VESSELS

    * Severe decrease in blood pressure
    * Collapse * 

LUNGS

    * Difficulty breathing *

SKIN

    * Hives *
    * Itching
    * Swelling and pain at site of the sting

* These symptoms are due to an allergic reaction, and not venom.

## Home Care

If you have an allergy to bee, wasp, or yellow jacket stings, always carry a
bee sting kit and know how to use it. These kits require a prescription. They
contain a medicine called epinephrine, which you should take right away if you
get a bee sting.

Call poison control or a hospital emergency room if the person who is stung
has an allergy to the insect or was stung inside the mouth or throat. People
with severe reactions may need to go to the hospital.

To treat the bee sting:

    * Try to remove the stinger from the skin (if it is still present). To do this, carefully scrape the back of a knife or other thin, blunt, straight-edged object (like a credit card) across the stinger if the person can keep still and it is safe to do so. Or, you can pull out the stinger with tweezers or your fingers. If you do this, do not pinch the venom sac at the end of the stinger. If this sac is broken, more venom will be released.
    * Clean the area thoroughly with soap and water.
    * Place ice (wrapped in a clean cloth) on the site of the sting for 10 minutes and then off for 10 minutes. Repeat this process. If the person has problems with blood circulation, decrease the time that the ice is on the area to prevent possible skin damage.
    * Keep the affected area still, if possible, to prevent the venom from spreading.
    * Loosen clothing and remove rings and other tight jewelry.
    * Give the person diphenhydramine (Benadryl and other brands) by mouth if they can swallow. This antihistamine drug may be used alone for mild symptoms. 

## Before Calling Emergency

Have this information ready:

    * Person's age, weight, and condition
    * Type of insect, if possible
    * Time of the sting 
    * Location of the sting

## Poison Control

Your local poison center can be reached directly by calling the national toll-
free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.
They will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

The health care provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs,
including temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure. Symptoms
will be treated. The person may receive:

    * Blood and urine tests
    * Breathing support, including oxygen; (tube through the mouth into the throat, and breathing machine in serious cases)
    * Chest x-ray
    * ECG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing)
    * Fluids through a vein (by IV)
    * Medicine to treat symptoms 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well a person does depends on how allergic they are to the insect sting
and how quickly they receive treatment. The faster they get medical help, the
better the chance for recovery. The chances of future total body reactions
increase when local reactions become more and more severe.

People who are not allergic to bees or wasps usually get better within 1 week.

DO NOT stick your hands or feet in nests or hives or other preferred hiding
places. Avoid wearing bright colored clothing and perfumes or other fragrances
if you will be in an area where bees are known to gather.

## Alternative Names

Apitoxin poisoning; Apis venenum purum poisoning; Apis virus poisoning

## Images

    * ![Insect stings and allergy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19327t.jpg)Insect stings and allergy

## References

Erickson TB, Marquez A. Arthropod envenomation and parasitism. In: Auerbach
PS, Cushing TA, Harris NS, eds. _Aurebach's Wilderness Medicine_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 41.

Otten EJ. Venomous animal injuries. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 55.

Varney SM. Bites and stings. In: Markovichick VJ, Pons PT, Bakes KM, Buchanan
JA, eds. _Emergency Medicine Secrets_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 72.

## Review Date 7/10/2017

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Picaduras y mordeduras de
insectos](https://medlineplus.gov/images/InsectBiteandStings_thumb.jpg)Insect
Bites and Stings _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

