Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002843.htm    
                                Description: Fire ants are red-colored insects. A sting from a fire ant delivers a harmful substance, called venom, into your skin.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Fire ants

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002843.htm

# Fire ants

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Fire ants are red-colored insects. A sting from a fire ant delivers a harmful
substance, called venom, into your skin.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual fire ant sting. If you or someone you are with has an exposure, call
your local emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be
reached directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

Fire ant venom contains a chemical called piperidine.

## Where Found

Fire ants build dirt nests that form mounds, usually in open, grassy settings.
They are typically found in the southern United States and other areas that do
not freeze in winter.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of a fire ant sting may include:

    * Swelling, redness, itchiness, and pain around the site of the bite
    * Pus-filled blisters that last 3 to 8 days
    * Possible scab at the area of the bite that lasts 3 to 10 days 

Those allergic to fire ant venom may also have:

    * Difficulty breathing
    * Rapid heart rate
    * Throat swelling 

Multiple fire ant stings may cause vomiting, diarrhea, swelling throughout the
body, shortness of breath, low blood pressure, rapid heartbeat, and shock.

## Home Care

Home treatment depends on the location of, and reaction to, the sting.

Wash the exposed area with plenty of soap and water. DO NOT use alcohol to
wash the area. Wash the eyes with plenty of water if any venom gets in them.

For mild stings, place ice (wrapped in a clean cloth) on the bite area for 10
minutes and then off for 10 minutes. Repeat this process. If the person has
problems with blood circulation, decrease the time to prevent possible damage
to the skin.

Some people are allergic to fire ant venom. If the reaction is severe, seek
medical help right away and call your local emergency number (such as 911) or
poison control.

Those who have an allergy to insect bites or stings should carry a bee sting
kit and know how to use it in an emergency. These kits require a prescription.

## Before Calling Emergency

Have this information ready:

    * Person's age, weight, and condition
    * The type of insect, if possible
    * Time of the bite 

## Poison Control

Your local poison center can be reached directly by calling the national toll-
free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.
They will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

The health care provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs,
including temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure. The wound
will be treated as appropriate.

The person may receive:

    * Blood and urine tests
    * Breathing support, including oxygen (severe allergic reactions may require a tube down the throat and breathing machine)
    * ECG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing)
    * Intravenous fluids (IV, through a vein)
    * Medicines to treat symptoms 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The sooner appropriate treatment is started, the better the outcome. People
who are not allergic to fire ants should be fine in a few hours to a few days.
People with severe allergic reactions may need to stay in the hospital.

## Images

    * ![Insect bites on the legs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2433t.jpg)Insect bites on the legs

## References

Elston DM. Bites and stings. In: Bolognia JL, Schaffer JV, Cerroni L, eds.
_Dermatology._ 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 85.

Erickson TB, MÃ¡rquez A. Arthropod envenomation and parasitism. In: Auerbach
PS, Cushing TA, Harris NS, eds. _Auerbach's Wilderness Medicine._ 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 41.

Otten EJ. Venomous animal injuries. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice._ 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 55.

## Review Date 6/27/2019

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Picaduras y mordeduras de
insectos](https://medlineplus.gov/images/InsectBiteandStings_thumb.jpg)Insect
Bites and Stings _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

