Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002857.htm    
                                Description: This article describes the effects of a wasp sting.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Wasp sting

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002857.htm

# Wasp sting

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

This article describes the effects of a wasp sting.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage a
sting. If you or someone you are with is stung, call your local emergency
number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be reached directly by
calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from
anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

Wasp venom is toxic. It is injected into you when you are stung.

## Where Found

Wasps carry this venom. Some people are allergic to the venom and have a
serious reaction if they are stung. Most people do not need emergency medical
treatment if they are stung.

## Symptoms

Below are symptoms of a wasp sting in different parts of the body.

EYES, EARS, NOSE, AND THROAT

    * Swelling of throat, lips, tongue, and mouth * 

HEART AND BLOOD VESSELS

    * Rapid heart rate
    * Severe decrease in blood pressure
    * Collapse (shock) * 

LUNGS

    * Difficulty breathing * 

SKIN

    * Hives *
    * Itching
    * Swelling and pain at site of sting 

STOMACH AND INTESTINES

    * Abdominal cramping
    * Diarrhea
    * Nausea and vomiting 

**Note:** The symptoms marked with an asterisk (*) are from an allergic
reaction to the venom, not from the venom itself.

## Home Care

**For severe reactions:**

Call 911 if the person has an allergic reaction (severe swelling or difficulty
breathing). You may need to go to the hospital if the reaction is severe.

If you have an allergy to wasp, bee, hornet or yellow jacket stings, always
carry a bee sting kit and know how to use it. These kits require a
prescription. They contain a medicine called epinephrine, which you should
take right away if you get a wasp sting.

 **To treat the wasp sting:**

    * Try to remove the stinger from the skin (if it is still present). To do this, carefully scrape the back of a knife or other thin, blunt, straight-edged object (like a credit card) across the stinger if the person can keep still and it is safe to do so. Or, you can pull out the stinger with tweezers or your fingers. If you do this, do not pinch the venom sac at the end of the stinger. If this sac is broken, more venom will be released.
    * Clean the area thoroughly with soap and water.
    * Place ice (wrapped in a clean cloth) on the site of the sting for 10 minutes and then off for 10 minutes. Repeat this process. If the person has problems with blood circulation, decrease the time that the ice is on the area to prevent possible skin damage.
    * Keep the affected area still, if possible, to prevent the venom from spreading.
    * Loosen clothing and remove rings and other tight jewelry.
    * Give the person diphenhydramine (Benadryl and other brands) by mouth if they can swallow. This antihistamine drug may be used alone for mild symptoms.

## Before Calling Emergency

Have this information ready:

    * Person's age, weight, and condition
    * Type of insect
    * Time the sting occurred
    * Location of the sting 

## Poison Control

Your local poison center can be reached directly by calling the national toll-
free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.
They will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

If an emergency room visit is necessary, the health care provider will measure
and monitor the person's vital signs, including temperature, pulse, breathing
rate, and blood pressure. Symptoms will be treated. The person may also
receive:

    * Blood and urine tests.
    * Breathing support, including oxygen. Severe allergic reactions may require a tube down the throat and breathing machine (ventilator).
    * Chest x-ray.
    * ECG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing).
    * Intravenous fluids (IV, through a vein).
    * Medicines to treat symptoms.Â 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well a person does depends on how allergic they are to the insect sting
and how quickly they receive treatment. The faster they get medical help, the
better the chance for recovery. The chances of future total body reactions
increase when local reactions become increasingly severe.

People who are not allergic to wasps, bees, hornets or yellow jackets usually
get better within 1 week.

DO NOT put your hands or feet in nests or hives or other preferred hiding
places. Avoid wearing bright colored clothing and perfumes or other fragrances
if you will be in an area where wasps are known to congregate.

## Images

    * ![Wasp](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1255t.jpg)Wasp

## References

Elston DM. Bites and stings. In: Bolognia JL, Schaffer JV, Cerroni L, eds.
_Dermatology._ 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 85.

Erickson TB, Marquez A. Arthropod envenomation and parasitism. In: Auerbach
PS, Cushing TA, Harris NS, eds. _Aurebach's Wilderness Medicine_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 41.

Otten EJ. Venomous animal injuries. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 55.

## Review Date 6/27/2019

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Picaduras y mordeduras de
insectos](https://medlineplus.gov/images/InsectBiteandStings_thumb.jpg)Insect
Bites and Stings _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

