Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000844.htm    
                                Description: Anaphylaxis is a life-threatening type of allergic reaction.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Anaphylaxis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000844.htm

# Anaphylaxis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Anaphylaxis is a life-threatening type of allergic reaction.

## Causes

Anaphylaxis is a severe, whole-body allergic reaction to a chemical that has
become an allergen. An allergen is a substance that can cause an allergic
reaction.

After being exposed to a substance such as bee sting venom, the person's
immune system becomes sensitized to it. When the person is exposed to that
allergen again, an allergic reaction may occur. Anaphylaxis happens quickly
after the exposure. The condition is severe and involves the whole body.

Tissues in different parts of the body release histamine and other substances.
This causes the airways to tighten and leads to other symptoms.

Some drugs (morphine, x-ray dye, aspirin, and others) may cause an
anaphylactic-like reaction (anaphylactoid reaction) when people are first
exposed to them. These reactions are not the same as the immune system
response that occurs with true anaphylaxis. But, the symptoms, risk of
complications, and treatment are the same for both types of reactions.

Anaphylaxis can occur in response to any allergen. Common causes include:

    * Drug allergies
    * Food allergies
    * Insect bites/stings

Pollen and other inhaled allergens rarely cause anaphylaxis. Some people have
an anaphylactic reaction with no known cause.

Anaphylaxis is life threatening and can occur at any time. Risks include a
history of any type of allergic reaction.

## Symptoms

Symptoms develop quickly, often within seconds or minutes. They may include
any of the following:

    * Abdominal pain
    * Feeling anxious
    * Chest discomfort or tightness
    * Diarrhea
    * Difficulty breathing, coughing, wheezing, or high-pitched breathing sounds
    * Difficulty swallowing
    * Dizziness or lightheadedness
    * Hives, itchiness, redness of the skin
    * Nasal congestion
    * Nausea or vomiting
    * Palpitations
    * Slurred speech
    * Swelling of the face, eyes, or tongue
    * Unconsciousness

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will examine the person and ask about what might have
caused the condition.

Tests for the allergen that caused anaphylaxis (if the cause is not obvious)
may be done after treatment.

## Treatment

Anaphylaxis is an emergency condition that needs medical attention right away.
Call 911 immediately.

Check the person's airway, breathing, and circulation, which are known as the
ABC's of Basic Life Support. A warning sign of dangerous throat swelling is a
very hoarse or whispered voice, or coarse sounds when the person is breathing
in air. If necessary, begin rescue breathing and CPR.

    1. Call 911.
    2. Calm and reassure the person.
    3. If the allergic reaction is from a bee sting, scrape the stinger off the skin with something firm (such as a fingernail or plastic credit card). Do not use tweezers. Squeezing the stinger will release more venom.
    4. If the person has emergency allergy medicine on hand, help the person take or inject it. Do not give medicine through the mouth if the person is having difficulty breathing.
    5. Take steps to prevent shock. Have the person lie flat, raise the person's feet about 12 inches (30 centimeters), and coverÂ the personÂ with a coat or blanket. Do not place the person in this position if a head, neck, back, or leg injury is suspected, or if it causes discomfort. 

DO NOT:

    * Do not assume that any allergy shots the person has already received will provide complete protection.
    * Do not place a pillow under the person's head ifÂ they are having trouble breathing. This can block the airways.
    * Do not give the person anything by mouth if they areÂ having trouble breathing. 

Paramedics or other providers may place a tube through the nose or mouth into
the airways. Or emergency surgery will be done to place a tube directly into
the trachea.

The person may receive medicines to further reduce symptoms.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Anaphylaxis can be life threatening without prompt treatment. Symptoms usually
do get better with the right therapy, so it is important to act right away.

## Possible Complications

Without prompt treatment, anaphylaxis may result in:

    * Blocked airway
    * Cardiac arrest (no effective heartbeat)
    * Respiratory arrest (no breathing)
    * Shock

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call 911 if you or someone you know develops severe symptoms of anaphylaxis.
Or, go to the nearest emergency room.

## Prevention

To prevent allergic reactions and anaphylaxis:

    * Avoid triggers such as foods and medicines that have caused an allergic reaction in the past. Ask detailed questions about ingredients when you are eating away from home. Also carefully examine ingredient labels.
    * If you have a child who is allergic to certain foods, introduce one new food at a time in small amounts so you can recognize an allergic reaction.
    * People who know that they have had serious allergic reactions should wear a medical ID tag.
    * If you have a history of serious allergic reactions, carry emergency medicines (such as a chewable antihistamine and injectable epinephrine or a bee sting kit) according to your provider's instructions.
    * Do not use your injectable epinephrine on anyone else. They may have a condition (such as a heart problem) that could be worsened by this drug.

## Alternative Names

Anaphylactic reaction; Anaphylactic shock; Shock - anaphylactic; Allergic
reaction - anaphylaxis

## Images

    * ![Shock](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17231t.jpg)Shock
    * ![Allergic reactions](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19150t.jpg)Allergic reactions
    * ![Anaphylaxis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19320t.jpg)Anaphylaxis
    * ![Hives](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19325t.jpg)Hives
    * ![Food allergies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19326t.jpg)Food allergies
    * ![Insect stings and allergy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19327t.jpg)Insect stings and allergy
    * ![Allergic reactions to medication](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19329t.jpg)Allergic reactions to medication
    * ![Antibodies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9069t.jpg)Antibodies

## References

Barksdale AN, Muelleman RL. Allergy, hypersensitivity, and anaphylaxis. In:
Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine:
Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap
109.

Brown SGA, Kemp SF, Lieberman PL. Anaphylaxis. In: Adkinson NF Jr, Bochner BS,
Burks AW, et al, eds. _Middleton's Allergy: Principles and Practice_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 77.

Lieberman P, Nicklas RA, Randolph C, et al. Anaphylaxis â a practice
parameter update 2015. _Ann Allergy Asthma Immunol_. 2015;115(5):341-384.
PMID: 26505932 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26505932.

Schwartz LB. Systemic anaphylaxis, food allergy, and insect sting allergy. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 253.

## Review Date 2/27/2018

Updated by: Stuart I. Henochowicz, MD, FACP, Associate Clinical Professor of
Medicine, Division of Allergy, Immunology, and Rheumatology, Georgetown
University Medical School, Washington, DC. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD,
MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Anaphylaxis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AnaphylaxisII_thumb.jpg)Anaphylaxis
_Read more_

![Drug Reactions](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DrugReactions_thumb.jpg)Drug
Reactions _Read more_

![Food Allergy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FoodAllergy_thumb.jpg)Food
Allergy _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

