Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001363.htm    
                                Description: Typhus is a bacterial disease spread by lice or fleas.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Typhus

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001363.htm

# Typhus

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Typhus is a bacterial disease spread by lice or fleas.

## Causes

Typhus is caused by two types of bacteria: _Rickettsia typhi_ or _Rickettsia
prowazekii_.

 _Rickettsia typhi_ causes endemic or murine typhus.

    * Endemic typhus is uncommon in the United States. It is usually seen in areas where hygiene is poor, and the temperature is cold. Endemic typhus is sometimes called "jail fever." The bacteria that cause this type of typhus is usually spread from rats to fleas to humans.
    * Murine typhus occurs in the southern United States, particularly California and Texas. It is often seen during the summer and fall. It is rarely deadly. You are more likely to get this type of typhus if you are around rat feces or fleas, and other animals such as cats, possums, raccoons, and skunks. 

_Rickettsia prowazekii_ causes epidemic typhus. It is spread by lice.

Brill-Zinsser disease is a mild form of epidemic typhus. It occurs when the
bacteria become active again in a person who was previously infected. It is
more common in older adults.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of murine or endemic typhus may include:

    * Abdominal pain
    * Backache
    * Dull red rash that begins on the middle of the body and spreads
    * Fever, can be extremely high, 105Â°F to 106Â°F (40.6Â°C to 41.1Â°C), that may last up to 2 weeks
    * Hacking, dry cough
    * Headache
    * Joint and muscle pain
    * Nausea and vomiting

Symptoms of epidemic typhus may include:

    * High fever, chills
    * Confusion, decreased alertness, delirium
    * Cough
    * Severe muscle and joint pain
    * Lights that appear very bright; light may hurt the eyes
    * Low blood pressure
    * Rash that begins on the chest and spreads to the rest of the body (except the palms of the hands and soles of the feet)
    * Severe headache

The early rash is a light rose color and fades when you press on it. Later,
the rash becomes dull and red and does not fade. People with severe typhus may
also develop small areas of bleeding into the skin.

## Exams and Tests

Diagnosis is often based on a physical examination and detailed information
about the symptoms. You may be asked if you recall being bit by fleas. If the
health care provider suspects typhus, you will be started on medicines right
away. Blood tests will be ordered to confirm the diagnosis.

## Treatment

Treatment includes the following antibiotics:

    * Doxycycline
    * Tetracycline
    * Chloramphenicol (less common) 

Tetracycline taken by mouth can permanently stain teeth that are still
forming. It is usually not prescribed for children until after all of their
permanent teeth have grown.

People with epidemic typhus may need oxygen and intravenous (IV) fluids.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

People with epidemic typhus who receive treatment quickly should completely
recover. Without treatment, death can occur, with those over age 60 having the
highest risk of death.

Only a small number of untreated people with murine typhus may die. Prompt
antibiotic treatment will cure nearly all people with murine typhus.

## Possible Complications

Typhus may cause these complications:

    * Renal insufficiencyÂ (kidneys cannot function normally)
    * Pneumonia
    * Central nervous system damage 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you develop symptoms of typhus. This serious disorder
can require emergency care.

## Prevention

Avoid being in areas where you might encounter rat fleas or lice. Good
sanitation and public health measures reduce the rat population.

Measures to get rid of lice when an infection has been found include:

    * Bathing
    * Boiling clothes or avoiding infested clothing for at least 5 days (lice will die without feeding on blood)
    * Using insecticides (10% DDT, 1% malathion, or 1% permethrin)

## Alternative Names

Murine typhus; Epidemic typhus; Endemic typhus; Brill-Zinsser disease; Jail
fever

## References

Blanton LS, Dumler JS, Walker DH. _Rickettsia typhi_ (murine typhus). In:
Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's
Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 192.

Blanton LS, Walker DH. _Rickettsia prowazekii_ (epidemic or louse-borne
typhus). In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and
Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_.
8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 191.

Raoult D. Rickettsial infections. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 327.

## Review Date 12/1/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bacterial
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Bacterialnfection_thumb.jpg)Bacterial
Infections _Read more_

![Picaduras y mordeduras de
insectos](https://medlineplus.gov/images/InsectBiteandStings_thumb.jpg)Insect
Bites and Stings _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

