Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001329.htm    
                                Description: Fleas are small insects that feed on the blood of humans, dogs, cats, and other warm-blooded animals.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Fleas

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001329.htm

# Fleas

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Fleas are small insects that feed on the blood of humans, dogs, cats, and
other warm-blooded animals.

## Causes

Fleas prefer to live on dogs and cats. They may also be found on humans and
other warm-blooded animals.

Pet owners may not be bothered by fleas until their pet has been gone for a
long period of time. Fleas look for other sources of food and begin to bite
humans.

## Symptoms

Bites often occur on the legs and places where clothes fit close to the body,
such as the waist, buttocks, thighs, and lower abdomen.

Symptoms of flea bites include:

    * Small red bumps, often three bumps together, that are very itchy
    * Blisters if the person has an allergy to flea bites

## Exams and Tests

Usually, a diagnosis can be made when the health care provider examines the
skin where the bites are. Questions may be asked about contact with animals
such as cats and dogs.

In rare cases, a skin biopsy is done to rule out other skin problems.

## Treatment

You can use an over-the-counter 1% hydrocortisone cream to relieve itching.
Antihistamines you take by mouth may also help with itching.

## Possible Complications

Scratching can lead to a skin infection.

Fleas can carry bacteria that cause diseases in humans, such as typhus and
plague. The bacteria can be transmitted to humans by flea bites.

## Prevention

Prevention may not always be possible. The goal is to get rid of the fleas.
This can be done by treating your home, pets, and outside areas with chemicals
(pesticides). Small children should not be in the home when pesticides are
being used. Birds and fish must be protected when chemicals are sprayed. Home
foggers and flea collars do not always work to get rid of fleas. Always
consult your veterinarian for help.

## Alternative Names

Pulicosis; Dog fleas; Siphonaptera

## Images

    * ![Flea](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1239t.jpg)Flea
    * ![Flea bite - close-up](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2051t.jpg)Flea bite - close-up

## References

Habif TP. Infestations and bites. In: Habif TP, ed. _Clinical Dermatology_.
6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 15.

James WD, Berger TG, Elston DM. Parasitic infestations, stings, and bites. In:
James WD, Berger TG, Elston DM, eds. _Andrews' Diseases of the Skin: Clinical
Dermatology_. 12th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 20.

## Review Date 10/14/2018

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Picaduras y mordeduras de
insectos](https://medlineplus.gov/images/InsectBiteandStings_thumb.jpg)Insect
Bites and Stings _Read more_

![Pet Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PetHealth_thumb.jpg)Pet Health
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

