Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001969.htm    
                                Description: A bug repellent is a substance that is applied to the skin or clothing to protect you against biting insects.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bug repellent safety

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001969.htm

# Bug repellent safety

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A bug repellent is a substance that is applied to the skin or clothing to
protect you against biting insects.

## Information

The safest bug repellent is to wear proper clothing.

    * Wear a full-brimmed hat to protect your head and the back of your neck.
    * Make sure your ankles and wrists are covered. Tuck pant cuffs into socks.
    * Wear light-colored clothing. Light colors are less attractive than dark colors to biting insects. It also makes it easier to spot ticks or insects that have landed.
    * Wear gloves, particularly while gardening.
    * Check clothes regularly for bugs.
    * Use protective netting around sleeping and eating areas to keep bugs at bay. 

Even with proper clothing, when visiting an area with many insects, bug
repellents such as those containing DEET or picaridin should be used.

    * To avoid skin irritation, apply insect repellent to clothing. Test the repellent on a small, hidden area of clothing first to see if it will bleach or discolor the fabric.
    * If areas of your skin are exposed, apply repellent there as well.
    * Avoid using directly on sunburned skin.
    * If using both sunscreen and repellent, apply sunscreen first and wait 30 minutes before applying repellent. 

To avoid toxicity from insect repellents:

    * Follow label instructions on how to use the repellent.
    * DO NOT use in infants under 2 months of age.
    * Apply repellent sparingly and only to exposed skin or clothing. Keep out of eyes.
    * Avoid using high-concentration products on the skin, unless there is a high risk of disease.
    * Use a lower concentration of DEET (under 30%) on pregnant women and small children.
    * DO NOT breathe in or swallow repellents.
    * DO NOT apply repellent to children's hands because they are likely to rub their eyes or put their handsÂ in their mouth.
    * Children age 2 months to 2 years old should not have insect repellent applied to their skin more than once in 24 hours.
    * Wash repellent off the skin after the risk of being bitten by an insect is gone. 

## Alternative Names

Insect repellent safety

## Images

    * ![Bee sting](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9100t.jpg)Bee sting

## References

Fradin MS. Insect protection. In: Keystone JS, Kozarsky PE, Connor BA,
Nothdurft HD, Mendelson M, Leder K, eds. _Travel Medicine_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 6.

United States Environmental Protection Agency website. Repellents: protection
against mosquitoes, ticks and other arthropods. www.epa.gov/insect-repellents.
Accessed May 31, 2019.

## Review Date 5/17/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Picaduras y mordeduras de
insectos](https://medlineplus.gov/images/InsectBiteandStings_thumb.jpg)Insect
Bites and Stings _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

