Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000033.htm    
                                Description: Insect bites and stings can cause an immediate skin reaction. The bite from fire ants and the sting from bees, wasps, and hornets are most often painful. Bites caused by mosquitoes, fleas, and mites are    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Insect bites and stings

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000033.htm

# Insect bites and stings

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Insect bites and stings can cause an immediate skin reaction. The bite from
fire ants and the sting from bees, wasps, and hornets are most often painful.
Bites caused by mosquitoes, fleas, and mites are more likely to cause itching
than pain.

Insect and spider bites cause more deaths from venom reactions than bites from
snakes.

## Considerations

In most cases, bites and stings can be easily treated at home.

Some people have extreme reactions that require immediate treatment to prevent
death.

Certain spider bites, such as the black widow or brown recluse, can cause
serious illness or death. Most spider bites are harmless. If possible, bring
the insect or spider that bit you with you when you go for treatment so it can
be identified.

## Symptoms

Symptoms depend on the type of bite or sting. They may include:

    * Pain
    * Redness
    * Swelling
    * Itching
    * Burning
    * Numbness
    * Tingling 

Some people have severe, life-threatening reactions to bee stings or insect
bites. This is called anaphylactic shock. This condition can occur very
quickly and lead to rapid death if not treated quickly.

Symptoms of anaphylaxis can occur quickly and affect the whole body. They
include:

    * Chest pain
    * Face or mouth swelling
    * Difficulty swallowing
    * Difficulty breathing
    * Fainting or lightheadedness
    * Abdominal pain or vomiting
    * Rash or flushing

## First Aid

For severe reactions, first check the person's airways and breathing. If
necessary, call 911 and begin rescue breathing and CPR. Then, follow these
steps:

    1. Reassure the person. Try to keep them calm.
    2. Remove nearby rings and constricting items because the affected area may swell.
    3. Use the person's EpiPen or other emergency kit, if they have one. (Some people who have serious insect reactions carry it with them.)
    4. If appropriate, treat the person for signs of shock. Remain with the person until medical help arrives. 

General steps for most bites and stings:

Remove the stinger by scraping the back of a credit card or other straight-
edged object across the stinger. Do not use tweezers -- these may squeeze the
venom sac and increase the amount of venom released.

Wash the site thoroughly with soap and water. Then, follow these steps:

    1. Place ice (wrapped in a washcloth) on the site of the sting for 10 minutes and then off for 10 minutes. Repeat this process.
    2. If necessary, take an antihistamine or apply creams that reduce itching.
    3. Over the next several days, watch for signs of infection (such as increasing redness, swelling, or pain).

## DO NOT

Use the following precautions:

    * DO NOT apply a tourniquet.
    * DO NOT give the person stimulants, aspirin, or other pain medicineÂ unless prescribed by a health care provider. 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call 911 orÂ your local emergency number if someone with a sting has the
following symptoms:

    * Trouble breathing, wheezing, shortness of breath
    * Swelling anywhere on the face or in the mouth
    * Throat tightness or difficulty swallowing
    * Feeling weak
    * Turning blue 

If you had a severe, bodywide reaction to a bee sting, your provider should
send you to an allergist for skin testing and therapy. You should receive an
emergency kit to carry with you wherever you go.

## Prevention

You can help prevent insect bites and stings by doing the following:

    * Avoid rapid, jerky movements around insect hives or nests.
    * Avoid perfumes and floral-patterned or dark clothing.
    * Use appropriate insect repellents and protective clothing.
    * Use caution when eating outdoors, especially with sweetened beverages or in areas around garbage cans, which often attract bees.
    * If you have severe allergies to insect bites or stings, you should have an emergency kit and an EpiPen. Make sure your friends and family know how to use it if you have a reaction. 

## Alternative Names

Bee sting; Bites - insects, bees, and spiders; Black widow spider bite; Brown
recluse bite; Flea bite; Honey bee or hornet sting; Lice bites; Mite bite;
Scorpion bite; Spider bite; Wasp sting; Yellow jacket sting

## Images

    * ![Bedbug - close-up](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1234t.jpg)Bedbug - close-up
    * ![Black widow spider](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1237t.jpg)Black widow spider
    * ![Body louse](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1238t.jpg)Body louse
    * ![Flea](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1239t.jpg)Flea
    * ![Fly](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1240t.jpg)Fly
    * ![Kissing bug](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1244t.jpg)Kissing bug
    * ![Dust mite](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1245t.jpg)Dust mite
    * ![Mosquito, adult feeding on the skin](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1246t.jpg)Mosquito, adult feeding on the skin
    * ![Wasp](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1255t.jpg)Wasp
    * ![Insect stings and allergy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19327t.jpg)Insect stings and allergy
    * ![Brown recluse spider](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19570t.jpg)Brown recluse spider
    * ![Black widow spider](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19582t.jpg)Black widow spider
    * ![Stinger removal](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19629t.jpg)Stinger removal
    * ![Flea bite - close-up](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2051t.jpg)Flea bite - close-up
    * ![Insect bite reaction - close-up](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2432t.jpg)Insect bite reaction - close-up
    * ![Insect bites on the legs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2433t.jpg)Insect bites on the legs
    * ![Head louse, male](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2605t.jpg)Head louse, male
    * ![Head louse - female](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2606t.jpg)Head louse - female
    * ![Head louse infestation - scalp](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2607t.jpg)Head louse infestation - scalp
    * ![Lice, body with stool \(Pediculus humanus\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2608t.jpg)Lice, body with stool (Pediculus humanus)
    * ![Body louse, female and larvae](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2609t.jpg)Body louse, female and larvae
    * ![Crab louse, female](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2611t.jpg)Crab louse, female
    * ![Pubic louse-male](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2612t.jpg)Pubic louse-male
    * ![Head louse and pubic louse](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2641t.jpg)Head louse and pubic louse
    * ![Brown recluse spider bite on the hand](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/3070t.jpg)Brown recluse spider bite on the hand
    * ![Insect bites and stings](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9473t.jpg)Insect bites and stings

## References

Boyer LV, Binford GJ, Degan JA. Spider bites. In: Auerbach PS, Cushing TA,
Harris NS, eds. _Auerbach's Wilderness Medicine_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 43.

Elston DM. Arthropods and leeches. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 359.

Otten EJ. Venomous animal injuries. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 55.

Suchard JR. Scorpion envenomation. In: Auerbach PS, Cushing TA, Harris NS,
eds. _Auerbach's Wilderness Medicine_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 44.

## Review Date 10/16/2017

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Picaduras y mordeduras de
insectos](https://medlineplus.gov/images/InsectBiteandStings_thumb.jpg)Insect
Bites and Stings _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

