Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002860.htm    
                                Description: Caterpillars are the larvae (immature forms) of butterflies and moths. There are many thousands of types, with a huge variety of colors and sizes. They look like worms and are covered in small hairs. Most    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Caterpillars

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002860.htm

# Caterpillars

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Caterpillars are the larvae (immature forms) of butterflies and moths. There
are many thousands of types, with a huge variety of colors and sizes. They
look like worms and are covered in small hairs. Most are harmless, but some
can cause allergic reactions, especially if your eyes, skin, or lungs come in
contact with their hairs, or if you eat them.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage
symptoms from exposure to caterpillars. If you or someone you are with is
exposed, call your local emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison
center can be reached directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help
hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Symptoms

Below are symptoms of exposure to caterpillar hairs in different parts of the
body.

EYES, MOUTH, NOSE AND THROAT

    * Drooling
    * Pain
    * Redness
    * Inflamed membranes in the nose
    * Increased tears
    * Mouth and throat burning and swelling
    * Pain
    * Redness of the eye 

NERVOUS SYSTEM

    * Headache 

RESPIRATORY SYSTEM

    * Cough
    * Shortness of breath
    * Wheezing 

SKIN

    * Blisters
    * Hives
    * Itching
    * Rash
    * Redness 

STOMACH AND INTESTINES

    * Vomiting, if caterpillar or caterpillar hairs are eaten 

WHOLE BODY

    * Pain
    * Severe allergic reaction (anaphylaxis). This is rare. 
    * A combination of symptoms including itching, nausea, headache, fever, vomiting, muscle spasms, tingling in the skin, and swollen glands. This is also rare.

## Home Care

Remove irritating caterpillar hairs. If the caterpillar was on your skin, put
sticky tape (such as duct or masking tape) where the hairs are, then pull it
off. Repeat until all hairs are removed. Wash the contact area with soap and
water, and then ice. Place the ice (wrapped in a clean cloth) on the affected
area for 10 minutes and then off for 10 minutes. Repeat this process. If the
person has blood flow problems, decrease the time ice is used to prevent
possible damage to the skin. After several ice treatments, apply a paste of
baking soda and water to the area.

If the caterpillar touched your eyes, flush your eyes right away with plenty
of water, and then get medical help.

Get medical care if you breathe in caterpillar hairs.

## Before Calling Emergency

Have this information ready:

    * Person's age, weight, and condition
    * Type of caterpillar, if known
    * Time of the incident 

## Poison Control

Your local poison center can be reached directly by calling the national toll-
free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.
They will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

Bring the caterpillar to the hospital, if possible. Make sure it is in a
secure container.

The health care provider will measure and monitor your vital signs, including
temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure. Symptoms will be
treated. You may receive:

    * Blood and urine tests
    * Breathing support, including oxygen; breathing tube through the mouth and breathing machine in serious allergic reactions
    * Eye examination and numbing eye drops
    * Eye flushing with water or saline
    * Medicines to control pain, itching, and allergic reactions
    * Skin examination to remove all caterpillar hairs

In more serious reactions, intravenous fluids (fluids through a vein), x-rays,
and ECG (electrocardiogram or heart tracing) may be necessary.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The faster you get medical help, the faster your symptoms will go away. Most
people do not have lasting problems from exposure to caterpillars.

## References

Erickson TB, Marquez A. Arthropod envenomation and parasitism. In: Auerbach
PS, Cushing TA, Harris NS, eds. _Auerbach's Wilderness Medicine_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 41.

James WD, Berger TG, Elston DM. Parasitic infestations, stings, and bites. In:
James WD, Berger TG, Elston DM, eds. _Andrews' Diseases of the Skin: Clinical
Dermatology_. 12th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 20.

Otten EJ. Venomous animal injuries. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 55.

## Review Date 6/30/2019

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Picaduras y mordeduras de
insectos](https://medlineplus.gov/images/InsectBiteandStings_thumb.jpg)Insect
Bites and Stings _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

