Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001087.htm    
                                Description: Acute bronchitis is swelling and inflamed tissue in the main passages that carry air to the lungs. This swelling narrows the airways, which makes it harder to breathe. Other symptoms of bronchitis are    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Acute bronchitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001087.htm

# Acute bronchitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Acute bronchitis is swelling and inflamed tissue in the main passages that
carry air to the lungs. This swelling narrows the airways, which makes it
harder to breathe. Other symptoms of bronchitis are a cough and coughing up
mucus. Acute means the symptoms have been present only for a short time.

![Bronchitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/17099.jpg)

## Causes

When acute bronchitis occurs, it almost always comes after having a cold or
flu-like illness. The bronchitis infection is caused by a virus. At first, it
affects your nose, sinuses, and throat. Then it spreads to the airways that
lead to your lungs.

![Causes of acute
bronchitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19364.jpg)

Sometimes, bacteria also infect your airways. This is more common in people
with COPD.

Chronic bronchitis is a long-term condition. To be diagnosed with chronic
bronchitis, you must have a cough with mucus on most days for at least 3
months.

![Causes of chronic
bronchitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19365.jpg)

## Symptoms

Some symptoms of acute bronchitis are:

    * Chest discomfort
    * Cough that produces mucus -- the mucus may be clear or yellow-green
    * Fatigue
    * Fever \-- usually low-grade
    * Shortness of breath that gets worse with activity
    * Wheezing, in people with asthma 

Even after acute bronchitis has cleared, you may have a dry, nagging cough
that lasts for 1 to 4 weeks.

Sometimes it can be hard to know if you have pneumonia or bronchitis. If you
have pneumonia, you are more likely to have a high fever and chills, feel
sicker, or be more short of breath.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will listen to the breathing sounds in your lungs
with a stethoscope. Your breathing may sound abnormal or rough.

![Lung anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/17100.jpg)

Tests may include:

    * Chest x-ray, if your provider suspects pneumonia
    * Pulse oximetry, a painless test that helps determine the amount of oxygen in your blood by using a device placed on the end of your finger 

## Treatment

Most people DO NOT need antibiotics for acute bronchitis caused by a virus.
The infection will almost always go away on its own within 1 week. Doing these
things may help you feel better:

    * Drink plenty of fluids.
    * If you have asthma or another chronic lung condition, use your inhaler.
    * Get plenty of rest.
    * Take aspirin or acetaminophen if you have a fever. DO NOT give aspirin to children.
    * Breathe moist air by using a humidifier or steaming up the bathroom.

Certain medicines that you can buy without a prescription can help break up or
loosen mucus. Look for the word "guaifenesin" on the label. Ask the pharmacist
for help finding it.

If your symptoms do not improve or if you are wheezing, your provider may
prescribe an inhaler to open your airways.

If your provider thinks you also have bacteria in your airways, they may
prescribe antibiotics. This medicine will only get rid of bacteria, not
viruses.

Your provider may also prescribe corticosteroid medicine to reduce swelling in
your lungs.

If you have the flu and it is caught in the first 48 hours after getting sick,
your provider might also prescribe antiviral medicine.

Other tips include:

    * DO NOT smoke.
    * Avoid secondhand smoke and air pollution.
    * Wash your hands (and your children's hands) often to avoid spreading viruses and other germs.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Except for the cough, symptoms usually go away in 7 to 10 days if you do not
have a lung disorder.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you:

    * Have a cough on most days, or have a cough that keeps returning
    * Are coughing up blood
    * Have a high fever or shaking chills
    * Have a low-grade fever for 3 or more days
    * Have thick, yellow-green mucus, especially if it has a bad smell
    * Feel short of breath or have chest pain
    * Have a chronic illness, like heart or lung disease 

## Patient Instructions

    * COPD - what to ask your doctor 
    * Using oxygen at home - what to ask your doctor 

## Images

    * ![Lungs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1103t.jpg)Lungs
    * ![Bronchitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17099t.jpg)Bronchitis
    * ![Causes of acute bronchitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19364t.jpg)Causes of acute bronchitis
    * ![Causes of chronic bronchitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19365t.jpg)Causes of chronic bronchitis
    * ![COPD \(chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19376t.jpg)COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder)

## References

Walsh EE. Acute bronchitis. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell,
Douglas and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated
Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 66.

Wenzel RP. Acute bronchitis and tracheitis. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 96.

## Review Date 2/18/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Acute
Bronchitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AcuteBronchitis_thumb.jpg)Acute
Bronchitis _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

