Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000975.htm    
                                Description: Bronchiolitis is swelling and mucus buildup in the smallest air passages in the lungs (bronchioles). It is usually due to a viral infection.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bronchiolitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000975.htm

# Bronchiolitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Bronchiolitis is swelling and mucus buildup in the smallest air passages in
the lungs (bronchioles). It is usually due to a viral infection.

![Bronchiolitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/17098.jpg)

## Causes

Bronchiolitis usually affects children under the age of 2, with a peak age of
3 to 6 months. It is a common, and sometimes severe illness. Respiratory
syncytial virus (RSV) is the most common cause. More than half of all infants
are exposed to this virus by their first birthday.

Other viruses that can cause bronchiolitis include:

    * Adenovirus
    * Influenza
    * Parainfluenza

The virus is spread to infants by coming into direct contact with nose and
throat fluids of someone who has the illness. This can happen when another
child or an adult who has a virus:

    * Sneezes or coughs nearby and tiny droplets in the air are then breathed in by the infant
    * Touches toys or other objects that are then touched by the infant 

Bronchiolitis occurs more often in the fall and winter than other times of the
year. It is a very common reason for infants to be hospitalized during winter
and early spring.

Risk factors of bronchiolitis include:

    * Being around cigarette smoke
    * Being younger than 6 months old
    * Living in crowded conditions
    * Not being breastfed
    * Being born before 37 weeks of pregnancy 

## Symptoms

Some children have few or mild symptoms.

Bronchiolitis begins as a mild upper respiratory infection. Within 2 to 3
days, the child develops more breathing problems, including wheezing and a
cough.

Symptoms include:

    * Bluish skin due to lack of oxygen (cyanosis) - emergency treatment is needed
    * Breathing difficulty including wheezing and shortness of breath
    * Cough
    * Fatigue
    * Fever
    * Muscles around the ribs sink in as the child tries to breathe in (called intercostal retractions)
    * Infant's nostrils get wide when breathing
    * Rapid breathing (tachypnea) 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. Wheezing and crackling
sounds may be heard through the stethoscope.

Most of the time, bronchiolitis can be diagnosed based on the symptoms and the
exam.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Blood gases
    * Chest x-ray
    * Culture of a sample of nasal fluid to determine the virus causing the disease 

## Treatment

The main focus of treatment is to relieve symptoms, such as difficulty
breathing and wheezing. Some children may need to stay in the hospital if
their breathing problems do not improve after being observed in the clinic or
emergency room.

Antibiotics do not work against viral infections. Medicines that treat viruses
may be used to treat very ill children.

At home, measures to relieve symptoms can be used. For example:

    * Have your child drink plenty of fluids. Breast milk or formula is fine for children younger than 12 months. Electrolyte drinks, such as Pedialyte, are also OK for infants.
    * Have your child breathe moist (wet) air to help loosen sticky mucus. Use a humidifier to moisten the air.
    * Give your child saline nose drops. Then use a nasal suction bulb to help relieve a stuffy nose.
    * Be sure your child gets plenty of rest. 

Do not allow anyone to smoke in the house, car, or anywhere near your child.
Children who are having trouble breathing may need to stay in the hospital.
There, treatment may include oxygen therapy and fluids given through a vein
(IV).

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Breathing often gets better by the third day and symptoms mostly clear within
a week. In rare cases, pneumonia or more severe breathing problems develop.

Some children may have problems with wheezing or asthma as they get older.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider right away or go to the emergency room if your child:

    * Becomes extremely tired
    * Has bluish color in the skin, nails, or lips
    * Starts breathing very fast
    * Has a cold that suddenly worsens
    * Has difficulty breathing
    * Has nostril flarings or chest retractions when trying to breathe 

## Prevention

Most cases of bronchiolitis cannot be prevented because the viruses that cause
the infection are common in the environment. Careful hand washing, especially
around infants, can help prevent the spread of viruses.

A medicine called palivizumab (Synagis) that boosts the immune system may be
recommended for certain children. Your child's doctor will let you know if
this medicine is right for your child.

## Alternative Names

Respiratory syncytial virus - bronchiolitis; Flu - bronchiolitis; Wheezing -
bronchiolitis

## Patient Instructions

    * Bronchiolitis - discharge
    * How to breathe when you are short of breath
    * Oxygen safety
    * Postural drainage 
    * Using oxygen at home
    * Using oxygen at home - what to ask your doctor 

## Images

    * ![Bronchiolitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17098t.jpg)Bronchiolitis
    * ![Normal lungs and alveoli](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8675t.jpg)Normal lungs and alveoli

## References

House SA, Ralston SL. Wheezing, bronchiolitis, and bronchitis. In: Kliegman
RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook
of Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 418.

Ralston SL, Lieberthal AS; American Academy of Pediatrics, et al. Clinical
practice guideline: the diagnosis, management, and prevention of
bronchiolitis. _Pediatrics_. 2014;134(5):e1474-e1502. PMID: 25349312
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25349312.

Walsh EE, Englund JA. Respiratory syncytial virus. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R,
Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 158.

## Review Date 8/7/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Acute
Bronchitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AcuteBronchitis_thumb.jpg)Acute
Bronchitis _Read more_

![Bronchial
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BronchialDisorders_thumb.jpg)Bronchial
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

