Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000072.htm    
                                Description: Industrial bronchitis is swelling (inflammation) of the large airways of the lungs that occurs in some people who work around certain dusts, fumes, smoke, or other substances.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Industrial bronchitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000072.htm

# Industrial bronchitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Industrial bronchitis is swelling (inflammation) of the large airways of the
lungs that occurs in some people who work around certain dusts, fumes, smoke,
or other substances.

## Causes

Exposure to dusts, fumes, strong acids, and other chemicals in the air causes
this type of bronchitis. Smoking may also contribute.

You may be at risk if you are exposed to dusts that contain:

    * Asbestos
    * Coal
    * Cotton
    * Flax
    * Latex
    * Metals
    * Silica
    * Talc
    * Toluene diisocyanate
    * Western red cedar

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

    * Cough that brings up mucus (sputum)
    * Shortness of breath
    * Wheezing

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will listen to your lungs using a stethoscope.
Wheezing sounds or crackles may be heard.

Tests that may be ordered include:

    * Chest CT scan
    * Chest x-ray
    * Pulmonary function tests (to measure breathing and how well the lungs are functioning)

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to reduce the irritation.

Getting more air into the workplace or wearing masks to filter out the
offending dust particles may help. Some people may need to be taken out of the
workplace.

Some cases of industrial bronchitis go away without treatment. Other times, a
person may need inhaled anti-inflammatory medicines. If you are at risk or
have experienced this problem and you smoke, stop smoking.

Helpful measures include:

    * Breathing humidified air
    * Increasing fluid intake
    * Resting

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome may be good as long as you can stop being exposed to the irritant.

## Possible Complications

Continued exposure to irritating gases, fumes, or other substances can lead to
permanent lung damage.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you are regularly exposed to dusts, fumes, strong acids,
or other chemicals that can affect the lungs and you develop symptoms of
bronchitis.

## Prevention

Control dust in industrial settings by wearing face masks and protective
clothing, and by treating textiles. Stop smoking if you are at risk.

Get early screening by a doctor if you are exposed to chemicals that can cause
this condition.

If you think a chemical you work with is affecting your breathing, ask your
employer for a copy of the Material Safety Data Sheet. Bring it with you to
your provider.

## Alternative Names

Occupational bronchitis

## Images

    * ![Bronchitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17099t.jpg)Bronchitis
    * ![Lung anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17100t.jpg)Lung anatomy
    * ![Bronchitis and Normal Condition in Tertiary Bronchus](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19357t.jpg)Bronchitis and normal condition in tertiary bronchus
    * ![Respiratory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9248t.jpg)Respiratory system

## References

LemiÃ¨re C, Vandenplas O. Asthma in the workplace. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ,
Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_.
6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 72.

Tarlo SM. Occupational lung disease. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 93.

## Review Date 11/3/2018

Updated by: Denis Hadjiliadis, MD, MHS, Paul F. Harron, Jr. Associate
Professor of Medicine, Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care, Perelman School
of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Acute
Bronchitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AcuteBronchitis_thumb.jpg)Acute
Bronchitis _Read more_

![Enfermedad pulmonar
intersticial](https://medlineplus.gov/images/InterstitialLungDisease_thumb.jpg)Interstitial
Lung Diseases _Read more_

![Occupational
Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/OccupationalHealth_thumb.jpg)Occupational
Health _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

