Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002409.htm    
                                Description: Niacin is a type of B vitamin. It is water-soluble vitamin. It is not stored in the body. Water-soluble vitamins dissolve in water. Leftover amounts of the vitamin leave the body through the urine. The    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Niacin

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002409.htm

# Niacin

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Niacin is a type of B vitamin. It is water-soluble vitamin. It is not stored
in the body. Water-soluble vitamins dissolve in water. Leftover amounts of the
vitamin leave the body through the urine. The body keeps a small reserve of
these vitamins. They have to be taken on a regular basis to maintain the
reserve.

## Function

Niacin helps the digestive system, skin, and nerves to function. It is also
important for changing food to energy.

## Food Sources

Niacin (also known as vitamin B3) is found in:

    * Milk
    * Eggs
    * Enriched breads and cereals
    * Rice
    * Fish
    * Lean meats
    * Legumes
    * Peanuts
    * Poultry 

NIACIN AND HEART DISEASE

For many years, doses of 1 to 3 grams of nicotinic acid per day has been used
as a treatment for high blood cholesterol.

Niacin can help in increasing level of good cholesterol (HDL cholesterol) in
the blood. It can also bring down the amount of unhealthy fat in the blood.
Always talk to your health care provider before starting any supplements.

## Side Effects

DEFICIENCY:

A deficiency of niacin causes pellagra. The symptoms include:

    * Digestive problems
    * Inflamed skin
    * Poor mental function

HIGH INTAKE:

Too much of niacin can cause:

    * Increased blood sugar (glucose) level
    * Liver damage
    * Peptic ulcers
    * Skin rashes

When given as a treatment to people with high cholesterol, niacin supplements
can cause âflushing.â It is a feeling of warmth, redness, itching or
tingling of the face, neck, arms or upper chest.

To prevent flushing, do not drink hot beverages or alcohol with niacin.

New forms of niacin supplement have less side effects. Nicotinamide does not
cause these side effects.

## Recommendations

REFERENCE INTAKES

Recommendations for niacin and other nutrients are provided in the Dietary
Reference Intakes (DRIs), which are developed by the Food and Nutrition Board
at the Institute of Medicine. DRI is the term for a set of reference values
that are used to plan and assess the nutrient intakes of healthy people. These
values, which vary by age and gender, include:

    * Recommended Dietary Allowance (RDA): average daily level of intake that is enough to meet the nutrient requirements of nearly all (97% to 98%) healthy people.
    * Adequate Intake (AI): when there is not enough evidence to develop an RDA, the AI is set at a level that is thought to ensure enough nutrition. 

Dietary Reference Intakes for Niacin:

Infants

    * 0 to 6 months: 2* milligrams per day (mg/day)
    * 7 to 12 months: 4* mg/day 

*Adequate Intake (AI)

Children (RDA)

    * 1 to 3 years: 6 mg/day
    * 4 to 8 years: 8 mg/day
    * 9 to 13 years: 12 mg/day 

Adolescents and Adults (RDA)

    * Males age 14 and older: 16 mg/day
    * Females age 14 and older: 14 mg/day, 18 mg/day during pregnancy, 17 mg/day during lactation 

Specific recommendations depend on age, gender, and other factors (such as
pregnancy). Women who are pregnant or breastfeeding need higher amounts. Ask
your provider which amount is best for you.

The best way to get the daily requirement of essential vitamins is to eat a
balanced diet that contains a variety of foods.

## Alternative Names

Nicotinic acid; Vitamin B3

## Images

    * ![Vitamin B3 benefit](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18102t.jpg)Vitamin B3 benefit
    * ![Vitamin B3 deficit](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18103t.jpg)Vitamin B3 deficit
    * ![Vitamin B3 source](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18104t.jpg)Vitamin B3 source

## References

Mason JB. Vitamins, trace minerals, and other micronutrients. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 218.

Salwen MJ. Vitamins and trace elements. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds.
_Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 26.

## Review Date 2/2/2019

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, CNSC, University of Virginia Health System,
Charlottesville, VA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![B Vitamins](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VitaminB_thumb.jpg)B Vitamins
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

