Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002411.htm    
                                Description: Riboflavin is a type of B vitamin. It is water soluble, which means it is not stored in the body. Water-soluble vitamins dissolve in water. Leftover amounts of the vitamin leave the body through the urine.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Riboflavin

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002411.htm

# Riboflavin

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Riboflavin is a type of B vitamin. It is water soluble, which means it is not
stored in the body. Water-soluble vitamins dissolve in water. Leftover amounts
of the vitamin leave the body through the urine. The body keeps a small
reserve of these vitamins. They have to be taken on a regular basis to
maintain the reserve.

## Function

Riboflavin (vitamin B2) works with the other B vitamins. It is important for
body growth. It helps in red blood cell production. It also aids in the
release of energy from proteins.

## Food Sources

The following foods provide riboflavin in the diet:

    * Dairy products
    * Eggs
    * Green leafy vegetables
    * Lean meats
    * Organ meats, such as liver and kidneys
    * Legumes
    * Milk
    * Nuts 

Breads and cereals are often fortified with riboflavin. Fortified means the
vitamin has been added to the food.

Riboflavin is destroyed by exposure to light. Foods with riboflavin should not
be stored in clear containers that are exposed to light.

## Side Effects

Lack of riboflavin is not common in the United States because this vitamin is
plentiful in the food supply. Symptoms of a severe deficiency include:

    * Anemia
    * Mouth or lip sores
    * Skin complaints
    * Sore throat
    * Swelling of mucous membranes

Because riboflavin is a water-soluble vitamin, leftover amounts leave the body
through the urine. There is no known poisoning from riboflavin.

## Recommendations

Recommendations for riboflavin, as well as other nutrients, are provided in
the Dietary Reference Intakes (DRIs) developed by the Food and Nutrition Board
at the Institute of Medicine. DRI is a term for a set of reference intakes
that are used to plan and assess the nutrient intakes of healthy people. These
values, which vary by age and gender, include:

 **Recommended Dietary Allowance (RDA):** The average daily level of intake
that is enough to meet the nutrient needs of nearly all (97% to 98%) healthy
people. An RDA is an intake level based on scientific research evidence.

**Adequate Intake (AI):** This level is established when there is not enough
scientific research evidence to develop an RDA. It is set at a level that is
thought to ensure enough nutrition.

 **RDA for Riboflavin:**

Infants

    * 0 to 6 months: 0.3* milligrams per day (mg/day)
    * 7 to 12 months: 0.4* mg/day

*Adequate Intake (AI)

Children

    * 1 to 3 years: 0.5 mg/day
    * 4 to 8 years: 0.6 mg/day
    * 9 to 13 years: 0.9 mg/day

Adolescents and adults

    * Males age 14 and older: 1.3 mg/day
    * Females age 14 to 18 years: 1.0 mg/day
    * Females age 19 and older: 1.1 mg/day
    * Pregnancy: 1.4 mg/day
    * Lactation: 1.6 mg/day

The best way to get the daily requirement of essential vitamins is to eat a
balanced diet that contains a variety of foods.

## Alternative Names

Vitamin B2

## Images

    * ![Vitamin B2 benefit](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18100t.jpg)Vitamin B2 benefit
    * ![Vitamin B2 source](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18101t.jpg)Vitamin B2 source

## References

Mason JB. Vitamins, trace minerals, and other micronutrients. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 218.

Maqbool A, Parks EP, Shaikhkhalil A, Panganiban J, Mitchell JA, Stallings VA.
Nutritional requirements. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS,
Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 55.

Salwen MJ. Vitamins and trace elements. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds.
_Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 26.

## Review Date 2/2/2019

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, CNSC, University of Virginia Health System,
Charlottesville, VA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![B Vitamins](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VitaminB_thumb.jpg)B Vitamins
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

