Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000569.htm    
                                Description: Anemia is a condition in which the body does not have enough healthy red blood cells. Red blood cells provide oxygen to body tissues. There are many types of anemia.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pernicious anemia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000569.htm

# Pernicious anemia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Anemia is a condition in which the body does not have enough healthy red blood
cells. Red blood cells provide oxygen to body tissues. There are many types of
anemia.

Pernicious anemia is a decrease in red blood cells that occurs when the
intestines cannot properly absorb vitamin B12.

## Causes

Pernicious anemia is a type of vitamin B12 anemia. The body needs vitamin B12
to make red blood cells. You get this vitamin from eating foods such as meat,
poultry, shellfish, eggs, and dairy products.

A special protein, called intrinsic factor (IF), binds vitamin B12 so that it
can be absorbed in the intestines. This protein is released by cells in the
stomach. When the stomach does not make enough intrinsic factor, the intestine
cannot properly absorb vitamin B12.

Common causes of pernicious anemia include:

    * Weakened stomach lining (atrophic gastritis)
    * An autoimmune condition in which the body's immune system attacks the actual intrinsic factor protein or the cells in the lining of your stomach that make it. 

In rare cases, pernicious anemia is passed down through families. This is
called congenital pernicious anemia. Babies with this type of anemia do not
make enough intrinsic factor. Or they cannot properly absorb vitamin B12 in
the small intestine.

In adults, symptoms of pernicious anemia are usually not seen until after age
30. The average age of diagnosis is age 60.

You are more likely to develop this disease if you:

    * Are Scandinavian or Northern European
    * Have a family history of the condition 

Certain diseases can also raise your risk. They include:

    * Addison disease
    * Graves disease
    * Hypoparathyroidism
    * Hypothyroidism
    * Myasthenia gravis
    * Loss of normal function of ovaries before 40 years of age (primary ovarian failure)
    * Type 1 diabetes
    * Testicular dysfunction
    * Vitiligo
    * SjÃ¶gren syndrome
    * Hashimoto's disease
    * Celiac disease

Pernicious anemia can also occur after gastric bypass surgery.

## Symptoms

Some people do not have symptoms. Symptoms may be mild.

They can include:

    * Diarrhea or constipation
    * Nausea
    * Vomiting
    * Fatigue, lack of energy, or lightheadedness when standing up or with exertion
    * Loss of appetite
    * Pale skin (mild jaundice)
    * Shortness of breath, mostly during exercise
    * Heartburn
    * Swollen, red tongue or bleeding gums 

If you have a low vitamin B12 level for a long time, you can have nervous
system damage. Symptoms can include:

    * Confusion 
    * Short-term memory loss
    * Depression
    * Loss of balance
    * Numbness and tingling in the hands and feet 
    * Problems concentrating
    * Irritability
    * Hallucinations
    * Delusions
    * Optic nerve atrophy

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. Tests that may be done
include:

    * Bone marrow examination (only needed if diagnosis is unclear)
    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * Reticulocyte countÂ 
    * LDH level
    * Serum bilirubin
    * Methylmalonic acid (MMA) level
    * Homocysteine level (amino acid found in blood)
    * Vitamin B12 level
    * Levels of antibodies against IF or the cells which make IF 

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to increase your vitamin B12 level:

    * Treatment involves a shot of vitamin B12 once a month. People with severely low levels of B12 may need more shots in the beginning.
    * Some people may be adequately treated by taking large doses of vitamin B12 supplements by mouth.
    * A certain type of vitamin B12 may be given through the nose. 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most people often do well with treatment.

It is important to start treatment early. Nerve damage can be permanent if
treatment does not start within 6 months of symptoms.

## Possible Complications

People with pernicious anemia may have gastric polyps. They are also more
likely to develop gastric cancer and gastric carcinoid tumors.

People with pernicious anemia are more likely to have fractures of the back,
upper leg, and upper forearm.

Brain and nervous system problems may continue or be permanent if treatment is
delayed.

A woman with a low B12 level may have a false positive Pap smear. This is
because vitamin B12 deficiency affects the way certain cells (epithelial
cells) in the cervix look.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of vitamin B12 deficiency.

## Prevention

There is no known way to prevent this type of vitamin B12 anemia. However,
early detection and treatment can help reduce complications.

## Alternative Names

Macrocytic achylic anemia; Congenital pernicious anemia; Juvenile pernicious
anemia; Vitamin B12 deficiency (malabsorption); Anemia - intrinsic factor;
Anemia - IF; Anemia - atrophic gastritis; Biermer anemia; Addison anemia

## Images

    * ![Megaloblastic anemia - view of red blood cells](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1214t.jpg)Megaloblastic anemia - view of red blood cells

## References

Antony AC. Megaloblastic anemias. In: Hoffman R, Benz EJ, Silberstein LE, et
al, eds. _Hematology: Basic Principles and Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 39.

Bunn HF. Approach to the anemias. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 158.

Elghetany MT, Schexneider KI, Banki K. Erythrocytic disorders. In: McPherson
RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory
Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 32.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Anemia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Anemia_thumb.jpg)Anemia _Read more_

![B Vitamins](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VitaminB_thumb.jpg)B Vitamins
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

