Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000788.htm    
                                Description: Niacin is a B-vitamin. When taken as a prescription in larger doses, it can help lower cholesterol and other fats in your blood. Niacin helps:    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Niacin for cholesterol

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000788.htm

# Niacin for cholesterol

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Niacin is a B-vitamin. When taken as a prescription in larger doses, it can
help lower cholesterol and other fats in your blood. Niacin helps:

    * Raise HDL (good) cholesterol
    * Lower LDL (bad) cholesterol
    * Lower triglycerides, another type of fat in your blood 

Niacin works by blocking how your liver makes cholesterol. Cholesterol can
stick to the walls of your arteries and narrow or block them.

## How Niacin Helps

Improving your cholesterol levels can help protect you from:

    * Heart disease
    * Heart attack
    * Stroke 

Your health care provider will work with you to lower your cholesterol by
improving your diet. If this is not successful, medicines to lower cholesterol
may be the next step. Statins are thought to be the best drugs to use for
people who need medicines to lower their cholesterol.

Research now suggests that niacin does not add to the benefit of a statin
alone for reducing the risk of cardiovascular events, including heart attacks
and stroke.

In addition, niacin can cause unpleasant and potentially dangerous side
effects. Therefore, its use has been declining. However, some people may be
prescribed niacin in addition to other drugs if they have very high
cholesterol or if they do not tolerate other medicines.

## Which Niacin Medicine is Right for you?

There are different brands of niacin medicines. Most also come in a less
expensive, generic form.

Niacin may be prescribed along with other medicines, such as a statin, to help
lower cholesterol. Combination tablets that include nicotinic acid plus other
medicines are also available.

Niacin is also sold over-the-counter (OTC) as a supplement. You should not
take OTC niacin to help lower cholesterol. Doing so could have serious side
effects.

## How to Take Niacin

Take your medicine as directed. The medicine comes in tablet form. DO NOT
break or chew tablets before taking the medicine. DO NOT stop taking your
medicine without talking with your provider first.

You take niacin 1 to 3 times per day. It comes in different doses, depending
on how much you need.

Read the label on the pill bottle carefully. Some brands should be taken at
bedtime with a light, low-fat snack; others you will take with dinner. Avoid
alcohol and hot drinks while taking niacin to reduce flushing.

Store all of your medicines in a cool, dry place. Keep them where children
cannot get to them.

You should follow a healthy diet while taking niacin. This includes eating
less fat in your diet. Other ways you can help your heart include:

    * Getting regular exercise
    * Managing stress
    * Quitting smoking 

## Know Your Risks

Before you start taking niacin, tell your provider if you:

    * Are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breastfeeding
    * Have allergies
    * Are taking other medicines
    * Drink a lot of alcohol
    * Have diabetes, kidney disease, peptic ulcer, or gout 

Talk to your provider about all of your medicines, herbs, or supplements.
Certain medicines may interact with niacin.

Regular blood tests will help you and your provider:

    * See how well the medicine is working
    * Monitor for side effects, such as liver problems 

## Possible Side Effects

Mild side effects may include:

    * Flushing and red face or neck
    * Diarrhea
    * Headache
    * Upset stomach
    * Skin rash 

Though rare, more serious side effects are possible. Your provider will
monitor you for signs. Talk with your provider about these possible risks:

    * Liver damage and changes to liver enzymes
    * Severe muscle pain, tenderness, and weakness
    * Heartbeat and rhythm changes
    * Changes in blood pressure
    * Severe flushing, skin rash, and skin changes
    * Glucose intolerance
    * Gout
    * Vision loss or changes 

## When to Call the Doctor

You should call your provider if you notice:

    * Side effects that are bothering you
    * Fainting
    * Dizziness
    * Fast or irregular heartbeat
    * Yellow skin or eyes (jaundice)
    * Muscle pain and weakness
    * Other new symptoms 

## Alternative Names

Antilipemic agent; Vitamin B3; Nicotinic acid; Niaspan; Niacor: Hyperlipidemia
- niacin; Hardening of the arteries - niacin; Cholesterol - niacin;
Hypercholesterolemia - niacin; Dyslipidemia - niacin

## References

Genest J, Libby P. Lipoprotein disorders and cardiovascular disease. In: Zipes
DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's
Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2019:chap 48.

Guyton JR, McGovern ME, Carlson LA. Niacin (nicotinic acid). In: Ballantyne
CM, ed. _Clinical Lipidology: A Companion to Braunwald's Heart Disease_. 2nd
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 24.

Lavigne PM, Karas RH. The current state of niacin in cardiovascular disease
prevention: a systematic review and meta-regression. _J Am Coll Cardiol_.
2013;61(4):440-446. PMID: 23265337 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23265337.

Mani P, Rohatgi A. Niacin therapy, HDL cholesterol, and cardiovascular
disease: is the HDL hypothesis defunct? _Curr Atheroscler Rep_. 2015,17(8):43.
PMID: 26048725 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26048725.

Stone NJ, Robinson JG, Lichtenstein AH, et al. 2013 ACC/AHA guideline on the
treatment of blood cholesterol to reduce atherosclerotic cardiovascular risk
in adults: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart
Association Task Force on practice guidelines. _J Am Coll Cardiol_. 2014;63(25
Pt B):2889-2934. PMID: 24239923 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24239923.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * B Vitamins
    * Cholesterol
    * Cholesterol Medicines
    * HDL: The "Good" Cholesterol
    * LDL: The "Bad" Cholesterol

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

