Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002402.htm    
                                Description: Vitamin B6 is a water-soluble vitamin. Water-soluble vitamins dissolve in water so the body cannot store them. Leftover amounts of the vitamin leave the body through the urine. Although the body maintains    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Vitamin B6

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002402.htm

# Vitamin B6

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Vitamin B6 is a water-soluble vitamin. Water-soluble vitamins dissolve in
water so the body cannot store them. Leftover amounts of the vitamin leave the
body through the urine. Although the body maintains a small pool of water
soluble vitamins, they have to be taken regularly.

Lack of Vitamin B6 in the body is uncommon. It can occur in people with kidney
failure, liver disease, or drinking problem.

## Function

Vitamin B6 helps the body to:

    * Make antibodies. Antibodies are needed to fight many diseases.
    * Maintain normal nerve function.
    * Make hemoglobin. Hemoglobin carries oxygen in the red blood cells to the tissues. A vitamin B6 deficiency can cause a form of anemia.
    * Break down proteins. The more protein you eat, the more vitamin B6 you need.
    * Keep blood sugar (glucose) in normal ranges. 

## Food Sources

Vitamin B6 is found in:

    * Tuna and salmon
    * Banana
    * Legumes (dried beans)
    * Beef and pork
    * Nuts
    * Poultry
    * Whole grains and fortified cereals
    * Canned chickpeas

Fortified breads and cereals may also contain vitamin B6. Fortified means that
a vitamin or mineral has been added to the food.

## Side Effects

Large doses of vitamin B6 can cause:

    * Difficulty coordinating movement
    * Numbness
    * Sensory changes 

Deficiency of this vitamin can cause:

    * Confusion
    * Depression
    * Irritability
    * Mouth and tongue sores also known as glossitis
    * Peripheral neuropathy 

(Vitamin B6 deficiency is not common in the United States.)

## Recommendations

The Recommended Dietary Allowance (RDA) for vitamins reflects how much of each
vitamin people should receive on a daily basis. The RDA for vitamins may be
used to help create goals for each person.

How much of each vitamin is needed depends on a person's age and gender. Other
factors, such as pregnancy and illnesses, are also important. Ask your health
care provider which amount is best for you.

Dietary Reference Intakes for vitamin B6:

Infants

    * 0 to 6 months: 0.1* milligrams per day (mg/day)
    * 7 to 12 months: 0.3* mg/day 

*Adequate intake (AI)

Children

    * 1 to 3 years: 0.5 mg/day
    * 4 to 8 years: 0.6 mg/day
    * 9 to 13 years: 1.0 mg/day 

Adolescents and adults

    * Males age 14 to 50 years: 1.3 mg/day
    * Males over 50 years: 1.7 mg/day
    * Females age 14 to 18 years: 1.2 mg/day
    * Females age 19 to 50 years: 1.3 mg/day
    * Females over 50 years: 1.5 mg/day
    * Females of all ages 1.9 mg/day during pregnancy and 2.0 mg/day during lactation 

The best way to get the daily requirement of essential vitamins is to eat a
balanced diet that contains a variety of foods.

## Alternative Names

Pyridoxal; Pyridoxine; Pyridoxamine

## Images

    * ![Vitamin B6 benefit](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18105t.jpg)Vitamin B6 benefit
    * ![Vitamin B6 source](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18106t.jpg)Vitamin B6 source

## References

Mason JB. Vitamins, trace minerals, and other micronutrients. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 218.

Salwen MJ. Vitamins and trace elements. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds.
_Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 26.

## Review Date 2/2/2019

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, CNSC, University of Virginia Health System,
Charlottesville, VA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![B Vitamins](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VitaminB_thumb.jpg)B Vitamins
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

