Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/vitamin-b-test/    
                                Description: A vitamin B test shows if you are deficient in one of the B vitamins. B vitamins are nutrients your body needs so that it can perform a variety of essential functions. A deficiency in any of the B vitamins can cause serious health problems. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Vitamin B Test

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/vitamin-b-test/

# Vitamin B Test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a vitamin B test?

This test measures the amount of one or more B vitamins in your blood or
urine. B vitamins are nutrients the body needs so that it can perform a
variety of essential functions. These include:

    * Maintaining normal metabolism (the process of how your body uses food and energy)
    * Making healthy blood cells
    * Helping the nervous system work properly
    * Reducing risk of heart disease
    * Helping to lower bad cholesterol (LDL) and increase good cholesterol (HDL)

There are several types of B vitamins. These vitamins, also known as the B
vitamin complex, include the following:

    * B1, thiamine
    * B2, riboflavin
    * B3, niacin
    * B5, pantothenic acid
    * B6, pyridoxal phosphate
    * B7, biotin
    * B9, folic acid (or folate) and B12, cobalamin. These two B vitamins are often measured together in a test called vitamin B12 and folate.

Vitamin B deficiencies are rare in the United States, because many everyday
foods are fortified with B vitamins. These foods include cereals, breads, and
pasta. Also, B vitamins are found naturally in a variety of foods, including
leafy green vegetables and whole grains. But if you do have a deficiency in
any of the B vitamins, it can cause serious health problems.

Other names: vitamin B testing, vitamin B complex, thiamine (B1), riboflavin
(B2), niacin (B3), pantothenic acid (B5), pyridoxal phosphate (B6), biotin
(B7), vitamin B12 and folate

## What is it used for?

Vitamin B testing is used to find out if your body is not getting enough of
one or more B vitamins (vitamin B deficiency). A vitamin B12 and folate test
is often used to check for certain types of anemia.

## Why do I need a vitamin B test?

You may need this test if you have symptoms of a vitamin B deficiency.
Symptoms vary depending on which B vitamin is deficient, but some common
symptoms include:

    * Rash
    * Tingling or burning in the hands and feet
    * Cracked lips or mouth sores
    * Weight loss
    * Weakness
    * Fatigue
    * Mood changes

You may also need testing if you have certain risk factors. You may be at a
higher risk for a vitamin B deficiency if you have:

    * Celiac disease
    * Had gastric bypass surgery
    * A family history of anemia
    * Symptoms of anemia, which include fatigue, pale skin, and dizziness

## What happens during a vitamin B test?

Vitamin B levels may be checked in blood or urine.

 **During a blood test** , a health care professional will take a blood sample
from a vein in your arm, using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a
small amount of blood will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel
a little sting when the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than
five minutes.

Vitamin B urine testing may be ordered as a 24-hour urine sample test or a
random urine test.

 **For a 24-hour urine sample test** , you'll need to collect all urine passed
in a 24-hour period. This is called a 24-hour urine sample test. Your health
care provider or a laboratory professional will give a container to collect
your urine and instructions on how to collect and store your samples. A
24-hour urine sample test generally includes the following steps:

    * Empty your bladder in the morning and flush that urine away. Record the time.
    * For the next 24 hours, save all your urine passed in the container provided.
    * Store your urine container in the refrigerator or a cooler with ice.
    * Return the sample container to your health provider's office or the laboratory as instructed.

 **For a random urine test** , your sample of urine may be collected any time
of the day.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

If you are having a vitamin B blood test, you may need to fast (not eat or
drink) for several hours before the test.

You don't need any special preparations for a urine test.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may experience slight
pain or bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go
away quickly.

There is no known risk to having a urine test.

## What do the results mean?

If your results show you have a vitamin B deficiency, it can mean you have:

    * Malnutrition, a condition that happens when you don't get enough nutrients in your diet.
    * A malabsorprtion syndrome, a type of disorder where your small intestine can't absorb enough nutrients from food. Malabsorption syndromes include celiac disease and Crohn's disease.

Vitamin B12 deficiencies are most often caused by pernicious anemia, a
condition in which the body does not make enough healthy red blood cells.

If you have questions about your results, talk to your health care provider.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about vitamin B testing?

Vitamin B6, folic acid (vitamin B9), and vitamin B12 play a key role in
maintaining a healthy pregnancy. While pregnant women are not routinely tested
for vitamin B deficiencies, nearly all pregnant women are encouraged to take
prenatal vitamins, which include B vitamins. Folic acid, in particular, can
help prevent birth defects of the brain and spine when taken during pregnancy.

## References

    1. American Pregnancy Association [Internet]. Irving (TX): American Pregnancy Association; c2019. Roles of Vitamin B in Pregnancy [updated 2019 Jan 3; cited 2019 Feb 11]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: http://americanpregnancy.org/pregnancy-health/vitamin-b-pregnancy
    2. Cleveland Clinic [Internet]. Cleveland (OH): Cleveland Clinic; c2019. Vitamins: The Basics [cited 2019 Feb 11]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://my.clevelandclinic.org/health/drugs/15847-vitamins-the-basics
    3. Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health [Internet]. Boston: The President and Fellows of Harvard College; c2019. Three of the B Vitamins: Folate, Vitamin B6, and Vitamin B12 [cited 2019 Feb 11]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.hsph.harvard.edu/nutritionsource/what-should-you-eat/vitamins/vitamin-b
    4. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. B Vitamins [updated 2018 Dec 22; cited 2019 Feb 11]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/b-vitamins
    5. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Random Urine Sample [updated 2017 Jul 10; cited 2019 Feb 11]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/glossary/random-urine
    6. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. 24-Hour Urine Sample [updated 2017 Jul 10; cited 2019 Feb 11]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/glossary/urine-24
    7. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Malnutrition [updated 2018 Aug 29; cited 2019 Feb 11]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/conditions/malnutrition
    8. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Vitamin B12 and Folate [updated 2019 Jan 20; cited 2019 Feb 11]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/vitamin-b12-and-folate
    9. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2019. Anemia: Symptoms and causes; 2017 Aug 8 [cited 2019 Feb 11]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/anemia/symptoms-causes/syc-20351360
    10. Michigan Medicine: University of Michigan [Internet]. Ann Arbor (MI): Regents of the University of Michigan; c1995â2019. Vitamin B-Complex [cited 2019 Feb 11]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.uofmhealth.org/health-library/hn-2922005
    11. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms: malabsorption syndrome [cited 2019 Feb 11]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/publications/dictionaries/cancer-terms/def/malabsorption-syndrome
    12. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms: vitamin B complex [cited 2019 Feb 11]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/publications/dictionaries/cancer-terms/search?contains=false&q=vitamin+B
    13. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Blood Tests [cited 2019 Feb 11]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    14. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Pernicious Anemia [cited 2019 Feb 11]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/pernicious-anemia
    15. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. University of Florida; c2019. Vitamin B12 level: Overview [updated 2019 Feb 11; cited 2019 Feb 11]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/vitamin-b12-level
    16. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2019. Health Encyclopedia: Vitamin B Complex [cited 2019 Feb 11]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=19&contentid=BComplex
    17. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2019. Health Encyclopedia: Vitamin B-12 and Folate [cited 2019 Feb 11]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid=vitamin_b12_folate
    18. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Metabolism [updated 2017 Oct 19; cited 2019 Feb 11]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/definition/metabolism/stm159337.html#stm159337-sec
    19. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Health Information: Vitamin B12 Test: Results [updated 2017 Oct 9; cited 2019 Feb 12]; [about 8 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/vitamin-b12-test/hw43820.html#hw43847
    20. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Health Information: Vitamin B12 Test: Why It Is Done [updated 2017 Oct 9; cited 2019 Feb 12]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/vitamin-b12-test/hw43820.html#hw43828

## Related Health Topics

    * Anemia
    * B Vitamins
    * Celiac Disease
    * Crohn's Disease
    * Folic Acid
    * Malabsorption Syndromes
    * Malnutrition
    * Prenatal Care

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Celiac Disease Screening
    * Fasting for a Blood Test
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results
    * Prealbumin Blood Test
    * Vitamin D Test
    * Vitamin E (Tocopherol) Test
    * White Blood Cell (WBC) in Stool

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 25 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

