Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000339.htm    
                                Description: Beriberi is a disease in which the body does not have enough thiamine (vitamin B1).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Beriberi

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000339.htm

# Beriberi

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Beriberi is a disease in which the body does not have enough thiamine (vitamin
B1).

## Causes

There are two major types of beriberi:

    * Wet beriberi: Affects the cardiovascular system.
    * Dry beriberi and Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome: Affects the nervous system.

Beriberi is rare in the United States. This is because most foods are now
vitamin enriched. If you eat a normal, healthy diet, you should get enough
thiamine. Today, beriberi occurs mostly in people who abuse alcohol. Drinking
heavily can lead to poor nutrition. Excess alcohol makes it harder for the
body to absorb and store vitamin B1.

In rare cases, beriberi can be genetic. This condition is passed down through
families. People with this condition lose the ability to absorb thiamine from
foods. This can happen slowly over time. The symptoms occur when the person is
an adult. However, this diagnosis is often missed. This is because health care
providers may not consider beriberi in nonalcoholics.

Beriberi can occur in infants when they are:

    * Breastfed and the mother's body is lacking in thiamine
    * Fed unusual formulas that don't have enough thiamine

Some medical treatments that can raise your risk of beriberi are:

    * Getting dialysis
    * Taking high doses of diuretics (water pills)

## Symptoms

Symptoms of dry beriberi include:

    * Difficulty walking
    * Loss of feeling (sensation) in hands and feet
    * Loss of muscle function or paralysis of the lower legs
    * Mental confusion/speech difficulties
    * Pain
    * Strange eye movements (nystagmus)
    * Tingling
    * Vomiting

Symptoms of wet beriberi include:

    * Awakening at night short of breath
    * Increased heart rate
    * Shortness of breath with activity
    * Swelling of the lower legs

## Exams and Tests

A physical examination may show signs of congestive heart failure, including:

    * Difficulty breathing with neck veins that stick out
    * Enlarged heart
    * Fluid in the lungs
    * Rapid heartbeat
    * Swelling in both lower legs

A person with late-stage beriberi may be confused or have memory loss and
delusions. The person may be less able to sense vibrations.

A neurological exam may show signs of:

    * Changes in the walk
    * Coordination problems
    * Decreased reflexes
    * Drooping of the eyelids

The following tests may be done:

    * Blood tests to measure the amount of thiamine in the blood
    * Urine tests to see if thiamine is passing through the urine

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to replace the thiamine your body is lacking. This is
done with thiamine supplements. Thiamine supplements are given through a shot
(injection) or taken by mouth.

Your provider may also suggest other types of vitamins.

Blood tests may be repeated after the treatment is started. These tests will
show how well you are responding to the medicine.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Untreated, beriberi can be fatal. With treatment, symptoms usually improve
quickly.

Heart damage is usually reversible. A full recovery is expected in these
cases. However, if acute heart failure has already occurred, the outlook is
poor.

Nervous system damage is also reversible, if caught early. If it is not caught
early, some symptoms (such as memory loss) may remain, even with treatment.

If a person with Wernicke encephalopathy receives thiamine replacement,
language problems, unusual eye movements, and walking difficulties may go
away. However, Korsakoff syndrome (or Korsakoff psychosis) tends to develop as
Wernicke symptoms go away.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Coma
    * Congestive heart failure
    * Death
    * Psychosis

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Beriberi is extremely rare in the United States. However, call your provider
if:

    * You feel your family's diet is inadequate or poorly balanced
    * You or your children have any symptoms of beriberi

## Prevention

Eating a proper diet that is rich in vitamins will prevent beriberi. Nursing
mothers should make sure that their diet contains all vitamins. If your infant
is not breastfed, make sure that the infant formula contains thiamine.

If you drink heavily, try to cut down or quit. Also, take B vitamins to make
sure your body is properly absorbing and storing thiamine.

## Alternative Names

Thiamine deficiency; Vitamin B1 deficiency

## References

Koppel BS. Nutritional and alcohol-related neurologic disorders. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 416.

Sachdev HPS, Shah D. Vitamin B complex deficiency and excess. In: Kliegman RM,
Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 49.

So YT. Deficiency diseases of the nervous system. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J,
Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 85.Â

## Review Date 6/28/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Alcoholism and Alcohol
Abuse](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Alcohol2_thumb.jpg)Alcohol Use Disorder
(AUD) _Read more_

![B Vitamins](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VitaminB_thumb.jpg)B Vitamins
_Read more_

![Genetic
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GeneticDisorders_thumb.jpg)Genetic
Disorders _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

