Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000574.htm    
                                Description: Anemia is a condition in which the body does not have enough healthy red blood cells. Red blood cells provide oxygen to body tissues. There are many types of anemia.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Vitamin B12 deficiency anemia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000574.htm

# Vitamin B12 deficiency anemia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Anemia is a condition in which the body does not have enough healthy red blood
cells. Red blood cells provide oxygen to body tissues. There are many types of
anemia.

Vitamin B12 deficiency anemia is a low red blood cell count due to a lack
(deficiency) of vitamin B12.

## Causes

Your body needs vitamin B12 to make red blood cells. In order to provide
vitamin B12 to your cells:

    * You must eat foods that contain vitamin B12, such as meat, poultry, shellfish, eggs, fortified breakfast cereals, and dairy products.
    * Your body must absorb enough vitamin B12. A special protein, called intrinsic factor, helps your body do this. This protein is released by cells in the stomach. 

A lack of vitamin B12 may be due to dietary factors, including:

    * Eating a strict vegetarian diet
    * Poor diet in infants
    * Poor nutrition during pregnancy 

Certain health conditions can make it difficult for your body to absorb enough
vitamin B12. They include:

    * Alcohol useÂ 
    * Crohn disease, celiac disease, infection with the fish tapeworm, or other problems that make it difficult for your body to digest foods
    * Pernicious anemia, a type of vitamin B12 anemia that occurs when your body destroys cells that make intrinsic factor
    * Surgery that removes certain parts of your stomach or small intestine, such as some weight-loss surgeries
    * Taking antacids and other heartburn medicines for a long period of time
    * Abuse of "laughing gas" (nitrous oxide) 

## Symptoms

You may not have symptoms. Symptoms may be mild.

Symptoms can include:

    * Diarrhea or constipation
    * Fatigue, lack of energy, or lightheadedness when standing up or with exertion
    * Loss of appetite
    * Pale skin
    * Feeling irritable
    * Shortness of breath, mostly during exercise
    * Swollen, red tongue or bleeding gums 

If you have low vitamin B12 level for a long time, you can have nerve damage.
Symptoms of nerve damage include:

    * Confusion or change in mental status (dementia) in severe cases
    * Problems concentrating
    * Psychosis (losing contact with reality)
    * Loss of balance
    * Numbness and tingling of hands and feet
    * Hallucinations

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. This may reveal
problems with your reflexes.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * Reticulocyte count
    * Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) level
    * Serum bilirubin level
    * Vitamin B12 level
    * Methylmalonic acid (MMA) level
    * Serum homocysteine level (amino acid found in blood)

Other procedures that may be done include:

    * Esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) to examine the stomach
    * Enteroscopy to examine the small intestine
    * Bone marrow biopsy if the diagnosis is not clear 

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the cause of B12 deficiency anemia.

The goal of treatment is to increase your vitamin B12 level.

    * Treatment may include a shot of vitamin B12 once a month. If you have a very low level of B12, you may need more shots in the beginning. It is possible you may need shots every month for the rest of your life.
    * Some people may respond to treatment by taking vitamin B12 supplements by mouth. 

Your provider will also recommend that you eat a variety of foods.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

People with this type of anemia often do well with treatment.

Long-term vitamin B12 deficiency can cause nerve damage. This may be permanent
if you do not start treatment within 6 months of when your symptoms begin.

Vitamin B12 deficiency anemia most often responds well to treatment. It will
likely get better when the underlying cause of the deficiency is treated.

## Possible Complications

A woman with a low B12 level may have a false positive Pap smear. This is
because vitamin B12 deficiency affects the way certain cells (epithelial
cells) in the cervix look.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have any of the symptoms of anemia.

## Prevention

You can prevent anemia caused by a lack of vitamin B12 byÂ eating a well-
balanced diet.

Shots of vitamin B12 can prevent anemia after surgeries known to cause vitamin
B12 deficiency.

Early diagnosis and prompt treatment can reduce or prevent complications
related to a low vitamin B12 level.

## Alternative Names

Megaloblastic macrocytic anemia

## Images

    * ![Megaloblastic anemia - view of red blood cells](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1214t.jpg)Megaloblastic anemia - view of red blood cells
    * ![Hypersegmented PMN \(Close-up\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1455t.jpg)Hypersegmented PMN (Close-up)

## References

Antony AC. Megaloblastic anemias. In: Hoffman R, Benz EJ, Silberstein LE, et
al, eds. _Hematology: Basic Principles and Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 39.

Bunn HF. Approach to the anemias. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 158.

Perez DL, Murray ED, Price BH. Depression and psychosis in neurological
practice. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's
Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap
10.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in Hematology
and Medical Oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Anemia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Anemia_thumb.jpg)Anemia _Read more_

![B Vitamins](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VitaminB_thumb.jpg)B Vitamins
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

