Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002403.htm    
                                Description: Vitamin B12 is a water-soluble vitamin. Water-soluble vitamins dissolve in water. After the body uses these vitamins, leftover amounts leave the body through the urine.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Vitamin B12

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002403.htm

# Vitamin B12

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Vitamin B12 is a water-soluble vitamin. Water-soluble vitamins dissolve in
water. After the body uses these vitamins, leftover amounts leave the body
through the urine.

The body can store vitamin B12 for years in the liver.

## Function

Vitamin B12, like the other B vitamins, is important for protein metabolism.
It helps in the formation of red blood cells and in the maintenance of the
central nervous system.

## Food Sources

Vitamin B12 is naturally found in animal foods such as fish, meat, poultry,
eggs, milk, and milk products. Vitamin B12 is generally not present in plant
foods. Fortified breakfast cereals are a readily available source of vitamin
B12. The vitamin is more available to the body from these cereals for
vegetarians. Some nutritional yeast products also contain vitamin B12.

You can get the recommended amounts of vitamin B12 by eating a variety of the
foods including:

    * Organ meats (beef liver)
    * Shellfish (clams)
    * Meat, poultry, eggs, milk and other dairy foods
    * Some fortified breakfast cereals and nutritional yeasts

To find out if vitamin B12 has been added to a food product, check the
nutrition fact panel on the food label.

The body absorbs vitamin B12 from animal sources much better than plant
sources. Non-animal sources of vitamin B12 have different amount of B12. They
are not thought to be good sources of the vitamin.

## Side Effects

Vitamin B12 deficiency occurs when the body does not get or is not able to
absorb the amount of vitamin that the body needs.

Deficiency occurs in people who:

    * Are over the age of 50
    * Follow vegetarian or vegan diet
    * Have had stomach or intestinal surgery, such as weight loss surgery
    * Have digestive conditions such as celiac disease or Crohn disease

Talk to your health care provider about taking Vitamin B12 supplements.

Low levels of B12 can cause:

    * Anemia
    * Pernicious anemia
    * Loss of balance
    * Numbness or tingling in the arms and legs
    * Weakness 

## Recommendations

The best way to meet your body's vitamin B12 needs is to eat a wide variety of
animal products.

Supplemental vitamin B12 can be found in the following:

    * Almost all multivitamins. Vitamin B12 is better absorbed by the body when it is taken along with other B vitamins, such as niacin, riboflavin, vitamin B6, and magnesium.
    * A prescription form of vitamin B12 can be given by injection or as a nasal gel.
    * Vitamin B12 is also available in a form that dissolves under the tongue (sublingual). 

The Recommended Dietary Allowance (RDA) for vitamins reflects how much of each
vitamin most people should receive on a daily basis. The RDA for vitamins may
be used as goals for each person.

How much of each vitamin you need depends on your age and gender. Other
factors, such as pregnancy and illnesses, are also important. Women who are
pregnant or breastfeeding need higher amounts. Ask your provider which amount
is best for you.

Dietary Reference Intakes for vitamin B12:

Infants (adequate intake)

    * 0 to 6 months: 0.4 micrograms per day (mcg/day)
    * 7 to 12 months: 0.5 mcg/day 

Children

    * 1 to 3 years: 0.9 mcg/day
    * 4 to 8 years: 1.2 mcg/day
    * 9 to 13 years: 1.8 mcg/day 

Adolescents and Adults

    * Males and females age 14 and older: 2.4 mcg/day
    * Pregnant teens and women: 2.6 mcg/day
    * Breastfeeding teens and women: 2.8 mcg/day 

## Alternative Names

Cobalamin; Cyanocobalamin

## Images

    * ![Vitamin B12 benefits](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19516t.jpg)Vitamin B12 benefits
    * ![Vitamin B12 source](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19517t.jpg)Vitamin B12 source

## References

Mason JB. Vitamins, trace minerals, and other micronutrients. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 218.

Salwen MJ. Vitamins and trace elements. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds.
_Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 26.

## Review Date 2/2/2019

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, CNSC, University of Virginia Health System,
Charlottesville, VA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![B Vitamins](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VitaminB_thumb.jpg)B Vitamins
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

