Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003705.htm    
                                Description: The vitamin B12 level is a blood test that measures how much vitamin B12 is in your blood.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Vitamin B12 level

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003705.htm

# Vitamin B12 level

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The vitamin B12 level is a blood test that measures how much vitamin B12 is in
your blood.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You should not eat or drink for about 6 to 8 hours before the test.

Certain medicines may affect the results of this test. Your health care
provider will tell you if you need to stop taking any medicines. DO NOT stop
any medicine before talking to your provider.

Medicines that can affect the test result include:

    * Colchicine
    * Neomycin
    * Para-aminosalicylic acid
    * Phenytoin

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or a slight bruise. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is most often done when other blood tests suggest a condition called
megaloblastic anemia. Pernicious anemia is a form of megaloblastic anemia
caused by poor vitamin B12 absorption. This can occur when the stomach makes
less of the substance the body needs to properly absorb vitamin B12.

Your provider may also recommend a vitamin B12 test if you have certain
nervous system symptoms. A low level of B12 can cause numbness or tingling in
the arms and legs, weakness, and loss of balance.

Other conditions for which the test may be done include:

    * Sudden severe confusion (delirium)
    * Loss of brain function (dementia)
    * Dementia due to metabolic causes
    * Nerve abnormalities, such as peripheral neuropathy 

## Normal Results

Normal values are 160 to 950 picograms per milliliter (pg/mL), or 118 to 701
picomole per liter (pmol/L).

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or may test different samples. Talk to your
provider about what your specific test results mean.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Values of less than 160 pg/mL (118 pmol/L) are a possible sign of a vitamin
B12 deficiency. People with this deficiency are likely to have or develop
symptoms.

Older adults with a vitamin B12 level less than 100 pg/mL (74 pmol/L) may also
have symptoms. Deficiency should be confirmed by checking the level of a
substance in the blood called methylmalonic acid. A high level indicates a
true B12 deficiency.

Causes of vitamin B12 deficiency include:

    * Not enough vitamin B12 in diet (rare, except with a strict vegetarian diet)
    * Diseases that cause malabsorption (for example, celiac disease and Crohn disease)
    * Lack of intrinsic factor, a protein that helps the intestine absorb vitamin B12
    * Above normal heat production (for example, with hyperthyroidism)
    * Pregnancy 

An increased vitamin B12 level is uncommon. Usually, excess vitamin B12 is
removed in the urine.

Conditions that can increase B12 level include:

    * Liver disease (such as cirrhosis or hepatitis)
    * Myeloproliferative disorders (for example, polycythemia vera and chronic myelogenous leukemia) 

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another and from one side of the body to the
other. Taking blood from some people may be more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Hematoma (blood buildup under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

## Alternative Names

Cobalamin test; Pernicious anemia - vitamin B12 level

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Vitamin B 12 (cyanocobalamin, CBL, extrinsic factor)
- serum. In: Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic
Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:1180-1181.

Mason JB. Vitamins, trace minerals, and other micronutrients. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 218.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longsteet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Anemia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Anemia_thumb.jpg)Anemia _Read more_

![B Vitamins](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VitaminB_thumb.jpg)B Vitamins
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

