Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000723.htm    
                                Description: Subacute combined degeneration (SCD) is a disorder of the spine, brain, and nerves. It involves weakness, abnormal sensations, mental problems, and vision difficulties.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Subacute combined degeneration

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000723.htm

# Subacute combined degeneration

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Subacute combined degeneration (SCD) is a disorder of the spine, brain, and
nerves. It involves weakness, abnormal sensations, mental problems, and vision
difficulties.

## Causes

SCD is caused by vitamin B12 deficiency. It mainly affects the spinal cord.
But its effects on the brain and the peripheral (body) nerves are the reason
for the term "combined." At first, the nerve covering (myelin sheath) is
damaged. Later, the entire nerve cell is affected.

Doctors do not know exactly how a lack of vitamin B12 damages the nerves. It
is possible that the lack of this vitamin causes abnormal fatty acids to form
around cells and nerves.

People are at high risk for this condition if vitamin B12 cannot be absorbed
from their intestine or if they have:

    * Pernicious anemia, a condition in which the body does not have enough healthy red blood cells
    * Disorders of the small intestine, including Crohn disease
    * Problems absorbing nutrients, which can occur after gastrointestinal surgery 

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

    * Abnormal sensations (tingling and numbness)
    * Weakness of the legs, arms, or other areas 

These symptoms slowly get worse and are usually felt on both sides of the
body.

As the disease worsens, symptoms may include any of the following:

    * Clumsiness, stiff or awkward movements
    * Change in mental state, such as memory problems, irritability, apathy, confusion, or dementia
    * Decreased vision
    * Depression
    * Sleepiness
    * Unsteady gait and loss of balance 
    * Falls due to poor balance

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. The exam usually shows
muscle weakness and sensation problems on both sides of the body, especially
in the legs. Knee jerk reflexes are often decreased or lost. Muscles may haveÂ
spasticity.Â There may be reduced senses of touch, pain, and temperature.

Mental changes range from mild forgetfulness to severe dementia or psychosis.
Severe dementia is uncommon, but in some cases, it is the first symptom of the
disorder.

An eye exam may show damage to the optic nerve, a condition called optic
neuritis. Signs of nerve inflammation may be seen during a retinal exam. There
may also be abnormal pupil responses, loss of sharp vision, and other changes.

Blood tests that may be ordered include:

    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * Vitamin B12 blood level
    * Methylmalonic acid blood level

## Treatment

Vitamin B12 is given, usually by injection into a muscle. Injections are often
given once a day for a week, then weekly for about 1 month, and then monthly.
Vitamin B12 supplements, either by injection or high-dose pills, must continue
throughout life to prevent symptoms from returning.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Early treatment improves the chance of a good outcome.

How well a person does depends on how long they had symptoms before receiving
treatment. If treatment is received within a few weeks, complete recovery may
be expected. If treatment is delayed for longer than 1 or 2 months, full
recovery may not be possible.

Untreated, SCD results in continued and permanent damage to the nervous
system.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if abnormal sensations, muscle weakness, or other symptoms
of SCD develop. This is particularly important if you or a family member has
had pernicious anemia or other risk factors.

## Prevention

Some vegetarian diets, especially vegan, may be low in vitamin B12. Taking a
supplement can help prevent SCD.

## Alternative Names

Subacute combined degeneration of the spinal cord; SCD

## Images

    * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system
    * ![Central nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19588t.jpg)Central nervous system

## References

Pytel P, Anthony DC. Peripheral nerves and skeletal muscles. In: Kumar V,
Abbas AK, Aster JC, eds. _Robbins and Cotran Pathologic Basis of Disease_. 9th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 27.

So YT. Deficiency diseases of the nervous system. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J,
Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice._ 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 85.

## Review Date 5/28/2019

Updated by: Alireza Minagar, MD, MBA, Professor, Department of Neurology, LSU
Health Sciences Center, Shreveport, LA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Anemia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Anemia_thumb.jpg)Anemia _Read more_

![B Vitamins](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VitaminB_thumb.jpg)B Vitamins
_Read more_

![Spinal
Cord](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SpinalCordDiseases_thumb.jpg)Spinal Cord
Diseases _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

