Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000342.htm    
                                Description: Pellagra is a disease that occurs when a person does not get enough niacin (one of the B complex vitamins) or tryptophan (an amino acid).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pellagra

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000342.htm

# Pellagra

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pellagra is a disease that occurs when a person does not get enough niacin
(one of the B complex vitamins) or tryptophan (an amino acid).

## Causes

Pellagra is caused by having too little niacin or tryptophan in the diet. It
can also occur if the body fails to absorb these nutrients.

Pellagra may also develop due to:

    * Gastrointestinal diseases
    * Weight loss (bariatric) surgery
    * Anorexia
    * Excessive alcohol use
    * Carcinoid syndrome (group of symptoms associated with tumors of the small intestine, colon, appendix, and bronchial tubes in the lungs)
    * Certain medicines, such as isoniazid, 5-fluorouracil, 6-mercaptopurine

The disease is common in parts of the world (certain parts of Africa) where
people have a lot of untreated corn in their diet. Corn is a poor source of
tryptophan, and niacin in corn is tightly bound to other components of the
grain. Niacin is released from corn if soaked in limewater overnight. This
method is used to cook tortillas in Central America where pellagra is rare.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of pellagra include:

    * Delusions or mental confusion
    * Diarrhea
    * Weakness
    * Loss of appetite
    * Pain in abdomen
    * Inflamed mucous membrane
    * Scaly skin sores, especially in sun-exposed areas of the skin

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will perform a physical exam. You will be asked
about the foods you eat.

Tests that may be done include urine tests to check if your body has enough
niacin. Blood tests may also be done.

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to increase your body's niacin level. You will be
prescribed niacin supplements. You may also need to take other supplements.
Follow your provider's instructions exactly on how much and how often to take
the supplements.

Symptoms due to the pellagra, such as skin sores, will be treated.

If you have conditions that are causing the pellagra, these will also be
treated.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

People often do well after taking niacin.

## Possible Complications

Left untreated, pellagra can result in nerve damage, particularly in the
brain. Skin sores may become infected.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have any symptoms of pellagra.

## Prevention

Pellagra can be prevented by following a well-balanced diet.

Get treated for health problems that may cause pellagra.

## Alternative Names

Vitamin B3 deficiency; Deficiency - niacin; Nicotinic acid deficiency

## Images

    * ![Vitamin B3 deficit](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18103t.jpg)Vitamin B3 deficit

## References

Elia M, Lanham-New SA. Nutrition. In: Kumar P, Clark M, eds. _Kumar and
Clarke's Clinical Medicine._ 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 10.

Meisenberg G, Simmons WH. Micronutrients. In: Meisenberg G, Simmons WH, eds.
_Principles of Medical Biochemistry_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 31.

So YT. Deficiency diseases of the nervous system. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J,
Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 85.

## Review Date 10/12/2018

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Alcoholism and Alcohol
Abuse](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Alcohol2_thumb.jpg)Alcohol Use Disorder
(AUD) _Read more_

![B Vitamins](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VitaminB_thumb.jpg)B Vitamins
_Read more_

![Malnutrition](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Malnutrition_thumb.jpg)Malnutrition
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

