Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002401.htm    
                                Description: Thiamin is one of the B vitamins. The B vitamins are a group of water-soluble vitamins that are part of many of the chemical reactions in the body.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Thiamin

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002401.htm

# Thiamin

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Thiamin is one of the B vitamins. The B vitamins are a group of water-soluble
vitamins that are part of many of the chemical reactions in the body.

## Function

Thiamin (vitamin B1) helps the body's cells change carbohydrates into energy.
The main role of carbohydrates is to provide energy for the body, especially
the brain and nervous system.

Thiamin also plays a role in muscle contraction and conduction of nerve
signals.

Thiamin is essential for the metabolism of pyruvate.

## Food Sources

Thiamin is found in:

    * Enriched, fortified, and whole grain products such as bread, cereals, rice, pasta, and flour
    * Wheat germ
    * Beef steak and pork
    * Trout and bluefin tuna
    * Egg
    * Legumes and peas
    * Nuts and seeds 

Dairy products, fruits, and vegetables are not very high in thiamin in small
amounts. But when you eat large amounts of these, they become a significant
source of thiamin.

## Side Effects

A lack of thiamin can cause weakness, fatigue, psychosis, and nerve damage.

Thiamin deficiency in the United States is most often seen in people who abuse
alcohol (alcoholism). A lot of alcohol makes it hard for the body to absorb
thiamin from foods.

Unless those with alcoholism receive higher-than-normal amounts of thiamin to
make up for the difference, the body will not get enough of the substance.
This can lead to a disease called beriberi.

In severe thiamin deficiency, brain damage can occur. One type is called
Korsakoff syndrome. The other is Wernicke disease. Either or both of these
conditions can occur in the same person.

There is no known poisoning linked to thiamin.

## Recommendations

The Recommended Dietary Allowance (RDA) for vitamins reflect how much of each
vitamin most people should get each day. The RDA for vitamins may be used as
goals for each person.

How much of each vitamin you need depends on your age and gender. Other
factors, such as pregnancy and illnesses, are also important. Adults and
pregnant or breastfeeding women need higher levels of thiamin than young
children.

Dietary Reference Intakes for thiamin:

Infants

    * 0 to 6 months: 0.2* milligrams per day (mg/day)
    * 7 to 12 months: 0.3* mg/day

*Adequate Intake (AI)

Children

    * 1 to 3 years: 0.5 mg/day
    * 4 to 8 years: 0.6 mg/day
    * 9 to 13 years: 0.9 mg/day

Adolescents and adults

    * Males age 14 and older: 1.2 mg/day
    * Females age 14 to 18 years: 1.0 mg/day
    * Females age 19 and older: 1.1 mg/day (1.4 mg needed during pregnancy and lactation)

The best way to get the daily requirement of essential vitamins is to eat a
balanced diet that contains a variety of foods.

## Alternative Names

Vitamin B1; Thiamine

## Images

    * ![Vitamin B1 benefit](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18098t.jpg)Vitamin B1 benefit
    * ![Vitamin B1 source](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18099t.jpg)Vitamin B1 source

## References

Mason JB. Vitamins, trace minerals, and other micronutrients. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 218.

Sachdev HPS, Shah D. Vitamin B deficiencies and excess. In: Kliegman RM, St.
Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 62.

Salwen MJ. Vitamins and trace elements. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds.
_Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 26.

Smith B, Thompson J. Nutrition and growth. In: The Johns Hopkins Hospital,
Hughes HK, Kahl LK, eds. _The Harriet Lane Handbook_. 21st ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 21.

## Review Date 2/2/2019

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, CNSC, University of Virginia Health System,
Charlottesville, VA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![B Vitamins](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VitaminB_thumb.jpg)B Vitamins
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

