Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002410.htm    
                                Description: Pantothenic acid (B-5) and biotin (B-7) are types of B vitamins. They are water-soluble, which means that the body can    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pantothenic acid and biotin

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002410.htm

# Pantothenic acid and biotin

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pantothenic acid (B-5) and biotin (B-7) are types of B vitamins. They are
water-soluble, which means that the body can't store them. If the body can't
use the entire vitamin, the extra amount leaves the body through the urine.
The body keeps a small reserve of these vitamins. They have to be taken on a
regular basis to maintain the reserve.

## Function

Pantothenic acid and biotin are needed for growth. They help the body break
down and use food. This is called metabolism. They are both required for
making fatty acids.

Pantothenic acid also plays a role in the production of hormones and
cholesterol. It is also used in the conversion of pyruvate.

## Food Sources

Almost all plant- and animal-based foods contain pantothenic acid in varying
amounts, though food processing can cause a significant loss.

Pantothenic acid is found in foods that are good sources of B vitamins,
including the following:

    * Animal proteins
    * Avocado
    * Broccoli, kale, and other vegetables in the cabbage family
    * Eggs
    * Legumes and lentils
    * Milk
    * Mushrooms
    * Organ meats
    * Poultry
    * White and sweet potatoes
    * Whole-grain cereals
    * Yeast 

Biotin is found in foods that are good sources of B vitamins, including:

    * Cereal
    * Chocolate
    * Egg yolk
    * Legumes
    * Milk
    * Nuts
    * Organ meats (liver, kidney)
    * Pork
    * Yeast

## Side Effects

Lack of pantothenic acid is very rare, but can cause a tingling feeling in the
feet (paresthesia). Lack of biotin may lead to muscle pain, dermatitis, or
glossitis (swelling of the tongue). Signs of biotin deficiency include skin
rashes, hair loss, and brittle nails.

Large doses of pantothenic acid do not cause symptoms, other than (possibly)
diarrhea. There are no known toxic symptoms from biotin.

## Recommendations

REFERENCE INTAKES

Recommendations for pantothenic acid and biotin, as well as other nutrients,
are provided in the Dietary Reference Intakes (DRIs) developed by the Food and
Nutrition Board at the Institute of Medicine. DRI is a term for a set of
reference intakes that are used to plan and assess the nutrient intakes of
healthy people. These values, which vary by age and gender, include:

    *  **Recommended Dietary Allowance (RDA):** average daily level of intake that is enough to meet the nutrient needs of nearly all (97% to 98%) healthy people.
    *  **Adequate Intake (AI):** established when there is not enough evidence to develop an RDA. It is set at a level that is thought to ensure enough nutrition. 

Dietary Reference Intakes for pantothenic acid:

    * Age 0 to 6 months: 1.7* milligrams per day (mg/day)
    * Age 7 to 12 months: 1.8* mg/day
    * Age 1 to 3 years: 2* mg/day
    * Age 4 to 8 years: 3* mg/day
    * Age 9 to 13 years: 4* mg/day
    * Age 14 and older: 5* mg/day
    * 6 mg/day during pregnancy
    * Lactation: 7 mg/day

*Adequate Intake (AI)

Dietary Reference Intakes for biotin:

    * Age 0 to 6 months: 5* micrograms per day (mcg/day)
    * Age 7 to 12 months: 6* mcg/day
    * Age 1 to 3 years: 8* mcg/day
    * Age 4 to 8 years: 12* mcg/day
    * Age 9 to 13 years: 20* mcg/day
    * Age 14 to 18 years: 25* mcg/day
    * 19 and older: 30* mcg/day (including women who are pregnant)
    * Lactating women: 35* mcg/day

*Adequate Intake (AI)

The best way to get the daily requirement of essential vitamins is to eat a
balanced diet that contains a variety of foods.

Specific recommendations depend on age, gender, and other factors (such as
pregnancy). Women who are pregnant or breastfeeding need higher amounts. Ask
your health care provider which amount is best for you.

## Alternative Names

Pantothenic acid; Pantethine; Vitamin B5; Vitamin B7

## References

Mason JB. Vitamins, trace minerals, and other micronutrients. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 218.

Salwen MJ. Vitamins and trace elements. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds.
_Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 26.

## Review Date 2/2/2019

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, CNSC, University of Virginia Health System,
Charlottesville, VA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![B Vitamins](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VitaminB_thumb.jpg)B Vitamins
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

