Link: https://medlineplus.gov/birthmarks.html    
                                Description: Birthmarks can be two main types: vascular, such as hemangiomas and port wine stains or pigmented, such as a mole or Mongolian spot. Find out more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Birthmarks

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/birthmarks.html

#  Birthmarks

Also called: Cafe au lait spot, Hemangioma, Mongolian spot, Nevus, Strawberry
mark

On this page

### Basics

  * Summary
  * Start Here
  * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

  * Specifics
  * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

  * Images

### Research

  * Clinical Trials
  * Journal Articles

### Resources

  * Find an Expert

### For You

  * Children
  * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Birthmarks are abnormalities of the skin that are present when a baby is born.
There are two types of birthmarks. Vascular birthmarks are made up of blood
vessels that haven't formed correctly. They are usually red. Two types of
vascular birthmarks are hemangiomas and port-wine stains. Pigmented birthmarks
are made of a cluster of pigment cells which cause color in skin. They can be
many different colors, from tan to brown, gray to black, or even blue. Moles
can be birthmarks.

No one knows what causes many types of birthmarks, but some run in families.
Your baby's doctor will look at the birthmark to see if it needs any treatment
or if it should be watched. Pigmented birthmarks aren't usually treated,
except for moles. Treatment for vascular birthmarks includes laser surgery.

Most birthmarks are not serious, and some go away on their own. Some stay the
same or get worse as you get older. Usually birthmarks are only a concern for
your appearance. But certain types can increase your risk of skin cancer. If
your birthmark bleeds, hurts, itches, or becomes infected, call your health
care provider.

## Start Here

  * Birthmarks (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
  * Birthmarks and Hemangiomas (American Academy of Pediatrics) Also in Spanish
  * Birthmarks: Conditions, Treatments, and Pictures (Logical Images)

## Treatments and Therapies

  * Laser Vascular Lesion Treatment (Logical Images)
  * Laser/Light Therapy for Birthmarks (American Society for Dermatologic Surgery)

## Specifics

  * Birthmarks: Signs and Symptoms (American Academy of Dermatology)
  * Capillary Hemangioma (American Association for Pediatric Ophthalmology and Strabismus)
  * Frequently Asked Questions about Congenital Melanocytic Nevus (CMN) (Nevus Outreach, Inc.)
  * Guide to Understanding Hemangiomas (Children's Craniofacial Association) \- PDF
  * Hemangiomas (American Osteopathic College of Dermatology)
  * Klippel-Trenaunay Syndrome (KTS) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
  * Port-Wine Stains (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
  * Sturge-Weber Syndrome (Nemours Foundation)
  * Sturge-Weber Syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
  * What Is Hemangioma? (American Academy of Ophthalmology) Also in Spanish

## Genetics

  * Genetics Home Reference: giant congenital melanocytic nevus ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Images

  * CafÃ© au Lait Macule (Logical Images)
  * Cherry Hemangioma (Logical Images)
  * Nevus, Congenital Melanocytic (Logical Images)
  * Port-Wine Stain (Logical Images)
  * Salmon Patch (Logical Images)
  * Strawberry Hemangioma (Logical Images)

## Clinical Trials

  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Hemangioma ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Nevus ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

  * Article: Management of the oral hemangiomas in infants and children: Scoping review.
  * Article: Stereotactic radiosurgery for cerebral cavernous malformations: A systematic review.
  * Article: Atypical melanocytic lesions: a historical overview.
  * Birthmarks -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

  * Find a Dermatologist (American Academy of Dermatology)
  * National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Children

  * What's a Birthmark? (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

  * Birthmarks - pigmented (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Birthmarks - red (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Cherry angioma (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Hemangioma (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Mongolian blue spots (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Port-wine stain (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Stork bite (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Birthmarks](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BirthMarks.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

  * Birthmarks - pigmented
  * Birthmarks - red
  * Cherry angioma
  * Hemangioma
  * Hemangioma excision - slideshow
  * Klippel-Trenaunay syndrome
  * Mongolian blue spots
  * Port-wine stain
  * Stork bite
  * Sturge-Weber syndrome

## Related Health Topics

  * Moles

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 27 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 18 April 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

