Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001366.htm    
                                Description: Group B streptococcal (GBS) septicemia is a severe bacterial infection that affects newborn infants.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Group B streptococcal septicemia of the newborn

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001366.htm

# Group B streptococcal septicemia of the newborn

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Group B streptococcal (GBS) septicemia is a severe bacterial infection that
affects newborn infants.

## Causes

Septicemia is an infection in the bloodstream that may travel to different
body organs. GBS septicemia is caused by the bacterium _Streptococcus
agalactiae_ , which is commonly called group B strep, or GBS.

GBS is commonly found in adults and older children, and usually does not cause
infection. But it can make newborn babies very sick. There are two ways in
which GBS can be passed to a newborn baby:

    * The baby can become infected while passing through the birth canal. In this case, babies become ill between birth and 6 days of life (most often in the first 24 hours). This is called early-onset GBS disease.
    * The infant may also become infected after delivery by coming into contact with people who carry the GBS germ. In this case, symptoms appear later, when the baby is 7 days to 3 months or more old. This is called late-onset GBS disease. 

GBS septicemia now occurs less often, because there are methods to screen and
treat pregnant women at risk.

The following increase an infant's risk for GBS septicemia:

    * Being born more than 3 weeks before the due date (prematurity), especially if the mother goes into labor early (preterm labor)
    * Mother who has already given birth to a baby with GBS sepsis
    * Mother who has a fever of 100.4Â°F (38Â°C) or higher during labor
    * Mother who has group B streptococcus in her gastrointestinal, reproductive, or urinary tract
    * Rupture of membranes (water breaks) more than 18 hours before the baby is delivered
    * Use of intrauterine fetal monitoring (scalp lead) during labor 

## Symptoms

The baby may have any of the following signs and symptoms:

    * Anxious or stressed appearance
    * Blue appearance (cyanosis)
    * Breathing difficulties, such as flaring of the nostrils, grunting noises, rapid breathing, and short periods without breathing
    * Irregular or abnormal (fast or very slow) heart rate
    * Lethargy
    * Pale appearance (pallor) with cold skin
    * Poor feeding
    * Unstable body temperature (low or high) 

## Exams and Tests

To diagnose GBS septicemia, GBS bacteria must be found in a sample of blood
(blood culture) taken from a sick newborn.

Other tests that may be done include:

    * Blood clotting tests - prothrombin time (PT) and partial thromboplastin time (PTT)
    * Blood gases (to see if the baby needs help with breathing)
    * Complete blood count
    * CSF culture (to check for meningitis)
    * Urine culture
    * X-ray of the chest

## Treatment

The baby is given antibiotics through a vein (IV).

Other treatment measures may involve:

    * Breathing help (respiratory support)
    * Fluids given through a vein
    * Medicines to reverse shock
    * Medicines or procedures to correct blood clotting problems
    * Oxygen therapy 

A therapy called extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) may be used in
very severe cases. ECMO involves using a pump to circulate blood through an
artificial lung back into the bloodstream of the baby.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

This disease can be life threatening without prompt treatment.

## Possible Complications

Possible complications include:

    * Disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC): A serious disorder in which the proteins that control blood clotting are abnormally active.
    * Hypoglycemia, or low blood sugar.
    * Meningitis: Swelling (inflammation) of the membranes covering the brain and spinal cord caused by infection.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

This disease is usually diagnosed shortly after birth, often while the baby is
still in the hospital.

However, if you have a newborn at home who shows symptoms of this condition,
seek immediate emergency medical help or call the local emergency number (such
as 911).

Parents should watch for symptoms in their baby's first 6 weeks. The early
stages of this disease can produce symptoms that are hard to spot.

## Prevention

To help reduce the risk for GBS, pregnant women should get tested for the
bacteria at 35 to 37 weeks into their pregnancy. If the bacteria are detected,
women are given antibiotics through a vein during labor. If the mother goes
into premature labor before 37 weeks and GBS test results are unavailable, she
should be treated with antibiotics.

Newborns who are at high risk are tested for GBS infection. They may receive
antibiotics through a vein during the first 30 to 48 hours of life until test
results are available. They should not be sent home from the hospital before
48 hours of age.

In all cases, proper hand washing by nursery caregivers, visitors, and parents
can help prevent the spread of the bacteria after the infant is born.

Early diagnosis can help decrease the risk for some complications.

## Alternative Names

Group B strep; GBS; Neonatal sepsis; Neonatal sepsis - strep

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Group B strep (GBS).
www.cdc.gov/groupbstrep/clinicians/clinical-overview.html. Updated May 29,
2018. Accessed December 10, 2018.

Edwards MS, Nizet V, Baker CJ. Group B streptococcal infections. In: Wilson
CB, Nizet V, Maldonado YA, Remington JS, Klein JO, eds. _Remington and Klein's
Infectious Diseases of the Fetus and Newborn Infant_. 8th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 12.

Lachenauer CS, Wessels MR. Group B streptococcus. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF,
St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 184.

## Review Date 11/11/2018

Updated by: Kimberly G. Lee, MD, MSc, IBCLC, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
Division of Neonatology, Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston, SC.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Infections and
Pregnancy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/InfectionsandPregnancy_thumb.jpg)Infections
and Pregnancy _Read more_

![Sepsis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Sepsis_thumb.jpg)Sepsis _Read more_

![Streptococcal
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/StreptococcalInfections_thumb.jpg)Streptococcal
Infections _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

