Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000666.htm    
                                Description: Sepsis is an illness in which the body has a severe, inflammatory response to bacteria or other germs.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Sepsis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000666.htm

# Sepsis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Sepsis is an illness in which the body has a severe, inflammatory response to
bacteria or other germs.

## Causes

The symptoms of sepsis are not caused by the germs themselves. Instead,
chemicals the body releases cause the response.

A bacterial infection anywhere in the body may set off the response that leads
to sepsis. Common places where an infection might start include the:

    * Bloodstream
    * Bones (common in children)
    * Bowel (usually seen with peritonitis)
    * Kidneys (upper urinary tract infection, pyelonephritis or urosepsis)
    * Lining of the brain (meningitis)
    * Liver or gallbladder
    * Lungs (bacterial pneumonia)
    * Skin (cellulitis)

For people in the hospital, common sites of infection include intravenous
lines, surgical wounds, surgical drains, and sites of skin breakdown, known as
bedsores or pressure ulcers.

Sepsis commonly affects infants or older adults.

## Symptoms

In sepsis, blood pressure drops, resulting in shock. Major organs and body
systems, including the kidneys, liver, lungs, and central nervous system may
stop working properly because of poor blood flow.

A change in mental status and very fast breathing may be the earliest signs of
sepsis.

In general, symptoms of sepsis can include:

    * Chills
    * Confusion or delirium
    * Fever or low body temperature (hypothermia)
    * Lightheadedness due to low blood pressure
    * Rapid heartbeat
    * Skin rash or mottled skin
    * Warm skin 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will examine the person and ask about the person's
medical history.

The infection is often confirmed by a blood test. But a blood test may not
reveal infection in people who have been receiving antibiotics. Some
infections that can cause sepsis cannot be diagnosed by a blood test.

Other tests that may be done include:

    * Blood differential
    * Blood gases
    * Kidney function tests
    * Platelet count and fibrin degradation products, to check for bleeding risk
    * White blood cell count

## Treatment

A person with sepsis will be admitted to a hospital, usually in the intensive
care unit (ICU). Antibiotics are usually given through a vein (intravenously).

Other medical treatments include:

    * Oxygen to help with breathing
    * Fluids given through a vein
    * Medicines that increase blood pressure
    * Dialysis if there is kidney failure
    * A breathing machine (mechanical ventilation) if there is lung failure

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Sepsis is often life threatening, especially in people with a weak immune
system or a long-term (chronic) illness.

Damage caused by a decrease in blood flow to vital organs such as the brain,
heart, and kidneys may take time to improve. There may be long-term problems
with these organs.

## Prevention

The risk of sepsis can be reduced by getting all recommended vaccines.

In the hospital, careful hand washing can help prevent hospital-acquired
infections that lead to sepsis. Prompt removal of urinary catheters and IV
lines when they are no longer needed can also help prevent infections that
lead to sepsis.

## Alternative Names

Septicemia; Sepsis syndrome; Systemic inflammatory response syndrome; SIRS;
Septic shock

## References

Munford RS, Suffredini AF. Sepsis, severe sepsis, and septic shock. In:
Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's
Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 75.

Shapiro NI, Jones AE. Sepsis syndromes. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-
Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 130.

Singer M, Deutschman CS, Seymour CW, et al. The third international consensus
definitions for sepsis and septic shock (sepsis-3). _JAMA_.
2016;315(8):801-810. PMID 26903338Â www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26903338.

## Review Date 9/22/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Sepsis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Sepsis_thumb.jpg)Sepsis _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

