Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/bacteria-culture-test/    
                                Description: Learn more about bacteria culture tests. They are used to diagnose bacterial infections. There are different types of tests depending on the site of infection.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Bacteria Culture Test

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/bacteria-culture-test/

# Bacteria Culture Test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a bacteria culture test?

Bacteria are a large group of one-celled organisms. They can live on different
places in the body. Some types of bacteria are harmless or even beneficial.
Others can cause infections and disease. A bacteria culture test can help find
harmful bacteria in your body. During a bacteria culture test, a sample will
be taken from your blood, urine, skin, or other part of your body. The type of
sample depends on the location of the suspected infection. The cells in your
sample will be taken to a lab and put in a special environment in a lab to
encourage cell growth. Results are often available within a few days. But some
types of bacteria grow slowly, and it may take several days or longer.

## What is it used for?

Bacteria culture tests are used to help diagnose certain types of infections.
The most common types of bacteria tests and their uses are listed below.

 **Throat Culture**

    * Used to diagnose or rule out strep throat
    * Test procedure:
      * Your health care provider will insert a special swab into your mouth to take a sample from the back of the throat and tonsils.

 **Urine Culture**

    * Used to diagnose a urinary tract infection and identify the bacteria causing the infection
    * Test procedure:
      * You will provide a sterile sample of urine in a cup, as instructed by your health care provider.

 **Sputum Culture**

Sputum is a thick mucus that is coughed up from the lungs. It is different
from spit or saliva.

    * Used to help diagnose bacterial infections in the respiratory tract. These include bacterial pneumonia and bronchitis.
    * Test procedure:
      * You may be asked to cough up sputum into a special cup as instructed by your provider; or a special swab may be used to take a sample from your nose.

 **Blood Culture**

    * Used to detect the presence of bacteria or fungi in the blood
    * Test procedure:
      * A health care professional will need a blood sample. The sample is most often taken from a vein in your arm.

 **Stool Culture**

Another name for stool is feces.

    * Used to detect infections caused by bacteria or parasites in the digestive system. These include food poisoning and other digestive illnesses.
    * Test procedure:
      * You will provide a sample of your feces in a clean container as instructed by your health care provider.

 **Wound Culture**

    * Used to detect infections on open wounds or on burn injuries
    * Test procedure:
      * Your health care provider will use a special swab to collect a sample from the site of your wound.

## Why do I need a bacteria culture test?

Your health care provider may order a bacteria culture test if you have
symptoms of a bacterial infection. The symptoms vary depending on the type of
infection.

## Why do I have to wait so long for my results?

Your test sample doesn't contain enough cells for your health care provider to
detect an infection. So your sample will be sent to a lab to allow the cells
to grow. If there is an infection, the infected cells will multiply. Most
disease-causing bacteria will grow enough to be seen within one to two days,
but it can take some organisms five days or longer.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

There are many different types of bacteria culture tests. Ask your health care
provider if you need to do anything to prepare for your test.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There are no known risks to having a swab or blood test or to providing a
urine or stool sample.

## What do the results mean?

If enough bacteria is found in your sample, it likely means you have a
bacterial infection. Your health care provider may order additional tests to
confirm a diagnosis or determine the severity of the infection. Your provider
may also order a "susceptibility test" on your sample. A susceptibility test
is used to help determine which antibiotic will be most effective in treating
your infection. If you have questions about your results, talk to your health
care provider.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I should know about a bacteria culture?

If your results show you donât have a bacterial infection, you **should
not** take antibiotics. Antibiotics only treat bacterial infections. Taking
antibiotics when you donât need them wonât help you feel better and may
lead a serious problem known as antibiotic resistance. Antibiotic resistance
allows harmful bacteria to change in a way makes antibiotics less effective or
not effective at all. This can be dangerous to you and to the community at
large, as this bacteria can be spread to others.

## References

    1. FDA: US Food and Drug Administration [Internet]. Silver Spring (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Combating Antibiotic Resistance; [updated 2018 Sep 10; cited 2019 Mar 31]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.fda.gov/ForConsumers/ConsumerUpdates/ucm092810.htm
    2. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Bacterial Sputum Culture: The Test; [updated 2014 Dec 16; cited 2017 Mar 4]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/sputum-culture/tab/test/
    3. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Bacterial Sputum Culture: The Test Sample; [updated 2014 Dec 16; cited 2017 Mar 4]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/sputum-culture/tab/sample/
    4. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Bacterial Wound Culture: The Test; [updated 2016 Sep 21; cited 2017 Mar 4]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/wound-culture/tab/test/
    5. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Bacterial Wound Culture: The Test Sample; [updated 2016 Sep 21; cited 2017 Mar 4]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/wound-culture/tab/sample/
    6. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Blood Culture: At a Glance; [updated 2015 Nov 9; cited 2017 Mar 4]; [about 1 screen]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/blood-culture
    7. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Blood Culture: The Test; [updated 2015 Nov 9; cited 2017 Mar 4]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/blood-culture/tab/test
    8. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Blood Culture: The Test Sample; [updated 2015 Nov 9; cited 2017 Mar 4]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/blood-culture/tab/sample/
    9. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Glossary: Culture; [cited 2017 May 1]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/glossary/culture
    10. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Stool Culture: The Test; [updated 2016 Mar 31; cited 2017 Mar 4]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/stool-culture/tab/test
    11. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Stool Culture: The Test Sample; [updated 2016 Mar 31; cited 2017 Mar 4]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/stool-culture/tab/sample/
    12. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Strep Throat Test: The Test Sample; [updated 2016 Jul 18; cited 2017 Mar 4]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/strep/tab/sample/
    13. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Susceptibility Testing: The Test; [updated 2013 Oct 1; cited 2017 May 1]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/fungal/tab/test/
    14. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Urine Culture: The Test; [updated 2016 Feb 16; cited 2017 Mar 4]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/urine-culture/tab/test
    15. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Urine Culture: The Test Sample; [updated 2016 Feb 16; cited 2017 Mar 4]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/urine-culture/tab/sample/
    16. Lagier J, Edouard S, Pagnier I, Mediannikov O, Drancourt M, Raolt D. Current and Past Strategies for Bacterial Culture in Clinical Biology. Clin Microbiol Rev [Internet]. 2015 Jan 1 [cited 2017 Mar 4]; 28(1): 208â236. Available from: http://cmr.asm.org/content/28/1/208.full
    17. Merck Manuals: Professional Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co., Inc.; c2017. Culture; [updated 2016 Oct; cited 2017 Mar 4]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: http://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/infectious-diseases/laboratory-diagnosis-of-infectious-disease/culture
    18. Merck Manuals: Professional Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co., Inc.; c2017. Overview of Bacteria; [updated 2015 Jan; cited 2017 Mar 4]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: http://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/infectious-diseases/bacteria-and-antibacterial-drugs/overview-of-bacteria
    19. The National Academies: What You Need to Know About Infectious Diseases [Internet]; The National Academy of Sciences; c2017. How Infection Works: Types of Microbes; [cited 2017 Oct 16]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: http://needtoknow.nas.edu/id/infection/microbe-types/
    20. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms: Bacteria; [cited 2017 Mar 4]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/publications/dictionaries/cancer-terms?search=bacteria
    21. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2017. Health Encyclopedia: Microbiology; [cited 2017 Mar 4]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=85&contentid;=P00961
    22. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Using Antibiotics Wisely: Topic Overview; [updated 2017 Nov 18; cited 2019 Mar 31]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/special/using-antibiotics-wisely/hw63605spec.htmlÂ 

## Related Health Topics

    * Antibiotics
    * Bacterial Infections

## Related Lab Test Information

    * How to Understand Your Lab Results

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 24 February 2020 Page last reviewed: 24 February 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

