Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/procalcitonin-test/    
                                Description: A procalcitonin test is a blood test. A high level of procalcitonin in blood can indicate sepsis, a life-threatening bacterial infection. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Procalcitonin Test

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/procalcitonin-test/

# Procalcitonin Test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a procalcitonin test?

A procalcitonin test measures the level of procalcitonin in your blood. A high
level could be a sign of a serious bacterial infection, such as sepsis. Sepsis
is the body's severe response to infection. Sepsis happens when an infection
in one area of your body, such as your skin or urinary tract, spreads into
your bloodstream. This triggers an extreme immune reaction. It can cause a
rapid heartbeat, shortness of breath, decreased blood pressure, and other
symptoms. Without quick treatment, sepsis can lead to organ failure or even
death.

A procalcitonin test can help your health care provider determine if you have
sepsis or another serious bacterial infection in the early stages. This may
help you get treated promptly and avoid life-threatening complications.

Other names: PCT test

## What is it used for?

A procalcitonin test may be used to help:

    * Diagnose sepsis and other bacterial infections, such as meningitis
    * Diagnose kidney infections in children with urinary tract infections
    * Determine the severity of a sepsis infection
    * Find out whether an infection or illness is caused by bacteria
    * Monitor the effectiveness of Antibiotics therapy

## Why do I need a procalcitonin test?

You may need this test if you have symptoms of sepsis or another serious
bacterial infection. These symptoms include:

    * Fever and chills
    * Sweating
    * Confusion
    * Extreme pain
    * Rapid heartbeat
    * Shortness of breath
    * Very low blood pressure

This test is usually performed in the hospital. It is mostly used for people
who come to the emergency room for treatment and for people who are already in
the hospital.

## What happens during a procalcitonin test?

A health care professional will take a blood sample from a vein in your arm,
using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a small amount of blood
will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel a little sting when
the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than five minutes.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You don't need any special preparation for a procalcitonin test.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

## What do the results mean?

If your results show a high procalcitonin level, it's likely you have a
serious bacterial infection such as sepsis or meningitis. The higher the
level, the more severe your infection may be. If you are being treated for an
infection, decreasing or low procalcitonin levels can show that your treatment
is working.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about a procalcitonin test?

Procalcitonin tests are not as precise as other laboratory tests for
infections. So your health care provider will need to review and/or order
other tests before making a diagnosis. But a procalcitonin test does offer
important information that can help your provider start treatment sooner and
may help you avoid serious illness.

## References

    1. AACC [Internet] Washington D.C.; American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2017. Do We Need Procalcitonin for Sepsis?; 2015 Feb [cited 2017 Oct 15]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.aacc.org/publications/cln/articles/2015/february/procalcitonin-for-sepsis
    2. Balci C, Sungurtekin H, GÃ¼rses E, Sungurtekin U, KaptanoÄlu, B. Usefulness of procalcitonin for diagnosis of sepsis in the intensive care unit. Crit Care [Internet]. 2002 Oct 30 [cited 2017 Oct 15]; 7(1):85â90. Available from: https://ccforum.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/cc1843
    3. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Sepsis: Basic Information [updated 2017 Aug 25; cited 2017 Oct 15]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/sepsis/basic/index.html
    4. Children's Minnesota [Internet]. Minneapolis (MN): Children's Minnesota; c2017. Chemistry: Procalcitonin [cited 2017 Oct 15]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.childrensmn.org/references/lab/chemistry/procalcitonin.pdf
    5. LabCorp [Internet]. Burlington (NC): Laboratory Corporation of America; c2017. Procalcitonin [cited 2017 Oct 15]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.labcorp.com/test-menu/33581/procalcitonin
    6. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Procalcitonin: The Test [updated 2017 Apr 10; cited 2017 Oct 15]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/procalcitonin/tab/test
    7. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Procalcitonin: The Test Sample [updated 2017 Apr 10; cited 2017 Oct 15]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/procalcitonin/tab/sample
    8. Mayo Clinic: Mayo Medical Laboratories [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1995â2017. Test ID: PCT: Procalcitonin, Serum [cited 2017 Oct 15]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayomedicallaboratories.com/test-catalog/Clinical+and+Interpretive/83169
    9. Meisner M. Update on Procalcitonin Measurements. Ann Lab Med [Internet]. 2014 Jul [cited 2017 Oct 15]; 34(4): 263â273. Available from: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4071182
    10. Merck Manual Professional Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co. Inc.; c2017. Sepsis, Severe Sepsis and Septic Shock [cited 2017 Dec 9]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: http://www.merckmanuals.com/home/infections/bacteremia,-sepsis,-and-septic-shock/sepsis,-severe-sepsis,-and-septic-shock
    11. Merck Manual Professional Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co. Inc.; c2017. Sepsis and Septic Shock [cited 2017 Oct 15]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: http://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/critical-care-medicine/sepsis-and-septic-shock/sepsis-and-septic-shock
    12. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What To Expect with Blood Tests [updated 2012 Jan 6; cited 2017 Oct 15]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health/health-topics/topics/bdt/with
    13. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What Are the Risks of Blood Tests? [updated 2012 Jan 6; cited 2017 Oct 15]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health/health-topics/topics/bdt/risks

## Related Health Topics

    * Antibiotics
    * Meningitis
    * Sepsis

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Bacteria Culture Test
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 26 February 2020 Page last reviewed: 9 March 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

