Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007303.htm    
                                Description: Neonatal sepsis is a blood infection that occurs in an infant younger than 90 days old. Early-onset sepsis is seen in the first week of life. Late onset sepsis occurs after 1 week through 3 months of age.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Neonatal sepsis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007303.htm

# Neonatal sepsis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Neonatal sepsis is a blood infection that occurs in an infant younger than 90
days old. Early-onset sepsis is seen in the first week of life. Late onset
sepsis occurs after 1 week through 3 months of age.

## Causes

Neonatal sepsis can be caused by bacteria such as _Escherichia coli_ ( _E
coli_ ), _Listeria_ , and some strains of streptococcus. Group B streptococcus
(GBS) has been a major cause of neonatal sepsis. However, this problem has
become less common because women are screened during pregnancy. The herpes
simplex virus (HSV) can also cause a severe infection in a newborn baby. This
happens most often when the mother is newly infected.

Early-onset neonatal sepsis most often appears within 24 to 48 hours of birth.
The baby gets the infection from the mother before or during delivery. The
following increase an infant's risk of early-onset bacterial sepsis:

    * GBS colonization during pregnancy
    * Preterm delivery
    * Water breaking (rupture of membranes) longer than 18 hours before birth
    * Infection of the placenta tissues and amniotic fluid (chorioamnionitis) 

Babies with late-onset neonatal sepsis are infected after delivery. The
following increase an infant's risk for sepsis after delivery:

    * Having a catheter in a blood vessel for a long time
    * Staying in the hospital for an extended period of time 

## Symptoms

Infants with neonatal sepsis may have the following symptoms:

    * Body temperature changes
    * Breathing problems
    * Diarrhea or decreased bowel movements
    * Low blood sugar
    * Reduced movements
    * Reduced sucking
    * Seizures
    * Slow or fast heart rate
    * Swollen belly area
    * Vomiting
    * Yellow skin and whites of the eyes (jaundice) 

## Exams and Tests

Lab tests can help diagnose neonatal sepsis and identify the cause of the
infection. Blood tests may include:

    * Blood culture
    * C-reactive protein
    * Complete blood count (CBC) 

If a baby has symptoms of sepsis, a lumbar puncture (spinal tap) will be done
to look at the spinal fluid for bacteria. Skin, stool, and urine cultures may
be done for herpes virus, especially if the mother has a history of infection.

A chest x-ray will be done if the baby has a cough or problems breathing.

Urine culture tests are done in babies older than a few days.

## Treatment

Babies younger than 4 weeks old who have fever or other signs of infection are
started on intravenous (IV) antibiotics right away. (It may take 24 to 72
hours to get lab results.) Newborns whose mothers had chorioamnionitis or who
may be at high risk for other reasons will also get IV antibiotics at first,
even if they have no symptoms.

The baby will get antibiotics for up to 3 weeks if bacteria are found in the
blood or spinal fluid. Treatment will be shorter if no bacteria are found.

An antiviral medicine called acyclovir will be used for infections that may be
caused by HSV. Older babies who have normal lab results and have only a fever
may not be given antibiotics. Instead, the child may be able to leave the
hospital and come back for checkups.

Babies who need treatment and have already gone home after birth will most
often be admitted to the hospital for monitoring.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Many babies with bacterial infections will recover completely and have no
other problems. However, neonatal sepsis is a leading cause of infant death.
The more quickly an infant gets treatment, the better the outcome.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Disability 
    * Death 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Seek medical help right away for an infant that shows symptoms of neonatal
sepsis.

## Prevention

Pregnant women may need preventive antibiotics if they have:

    * Chorioamnionitis
    * Group B strep colonization
    * Given birth in the past to a baby with sepsis caused by bacteria 

Other things that can help prevent sepsis include:

    * Preventing and treating infections in mothers, including HSV
    * Providing a clean place for birth
    * Delivering the baby within 12 to 24 hours of when the membranes break (Cesarean delivery should be done in women within 4 to 6 hours or sooner of membranes breaking.) 

## Alternative Names

Sepsis neonatorum; Neonatal septicemia; Sepsis - infant

## References

Committee on Infectious Diseases, Committee on Fetus and Newborn; Baker CJ,
Byington CL, Polin RA. Policy statement - recommendations for the prevention
of perinatal group B streptococcal (GBS) disease. _Pediatrics_.
2011;128(3):611-616. PMID: 21807694 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21807694.

Esper F. Postnatal bacterial infections. In Martin RJ, Fanaroff AA, Walsh MC,
eds. _Fanaroff and Martin's Neonatal-Perinatal Medicine_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 48.

Greenberg JM, Haberman B, Narendran V, Nathan AT, Schibler K. Neonatal
morbidities of prenatal and perinatal origin. In: Resnik R, Lockwood CJ, Moore
TR, Greene MF, Copel JA, Silver RM, eds. _Creasy and Resnik's Maternal-Fetal
Medicine: Principles and Practice_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 73.

Jaganath D, Same RG. Microbiology and infectious disease. In: The Johns
Hopkins Hospital; Hughes HK, Kahl LK, eds. _The Harriet Lane Handbook_. 21st
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 17.

Polin R, Randis TM. Perinatal infections and chorioamnionitis. In Martin RJ,
Fanaroff AA, Walsh MC, eds. _Fanaroff and Martin's Neonatal-Perinatal
Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 25.

Verani JR, McGee L, Schrag SJ; Division of Bacterial Diseases, National Center
for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases, Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention (CDC). Prevention of perinatal group B streptococcal disease--
revised guidelines from CDC, 2010. _MMWR Recomm Rep_. 2010;59(RR-10):1-36.
PMID: 21088663 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21088663.

## Review Date 4/4/2019

Updated by: Liora C. Adler, MD, Pediatric Emergency Medicine, Joe DiMaggio
Children's Hospital, Hollywood, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Sepsis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Sepsis_thumb.jpg)Sepsis _Read more_

![Uncommon Infant and Newborn
Problems](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UncommonInfantandNewbornProblems_thumb.jpg)Uncommon
Infant and Newborn Problems _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

