Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000653.htm    
                                Description: Toxic shock syndrome is a serious disease that involves fever, shock, and problems with several body organs.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Toxic shock syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000653.htm

# Toxic shock syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Toxic shock syndrome is a serious disease that involves fever, shock, and
problems with several body organs.

## Causes

Toxic shock syndrome is caused by a toxin produced by some types of
staphylococcus bacteria. A similar problem, called toxic shock-like syndrome
(TSLS), can be caused by toxin from streptococcal bacteria. Not all staph or
strep infections cause toxic shock syndrome.

The earliest cases of toxic shock syndrome involved women who used tampons
during their menstrual periods. However, today less than one half of cases are
linked to tampon use. Toxic shock syndrome can also occur with skin
infections, burns, and after surgery. The condition can also affect children,
postmenopausal women, and men.

Risk factors include:

    * Recent childbirth
    * Infection with _Staphylococcus aureus_ ( _S aureus_ ), commonly called a Staph infection
    * Foreign bodies or packings (such as those used to stop nosebleeds) inside the body
    * Menstrual period
    * Recent surgery
    * Tampon use (with higher risk if you leaveÂ one in for a long time)
    * Wound infection after surgery 

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

    * Confusion
    * Diarrhea
    * General ill feeling
    * Headaches
    * High fever, sometimes accompanied by chills
    * Low blood pressure
    * Muscle aches
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Organ failure (most oftenÂ kidneys and liver)
    * Redness of eyes, mouth, throat
    * Seizures
    * Widespread red rash that looks like a sunburn -- skin peeling occurs 1 or 2 weeks after the rash, particularly on the palms of the hand or bottom of the feet 

## Exams and Tests

No single test can diagnose toxic shock syndrome.

The health care provider will look for the following factors:

    * Fever
    * Low blood pressure
    * Rash that peels after 1 to 2 weeks
    * Problems with the function of at least 3 organs 

In some cases, blood cultures may be positive for growth of _S aureus_ orÂ
_Streptoccus pyognes_.

## Treatment

Treatment includes:

    * Removal of materials, such as tampons, vaginal sponges, or nasal packing
    * Drainage of infection sites (such as a surgical wound) 

The goal of treatment is to maintain important body functions. This may
include:

    * Antibiotics for any infection (may be given through an IV)
    * Dialysis (if severe kidney problems are present)
    * Fluids through a vein (IV)
    * Medicines to control blood pressure
    * Intravenous gamma globulin in severe cases
    * Staying in the hospital intensive care unit (ICU) for monitoring 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Toxic shock syndrome may be deadly in up to 50% of cases. The condition may
return in those who survive.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Organ damage including kidney, heart, and liver failure
    * Shock
    * Death 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Toxic shock syndrome is a medical emergency. Seek medical help right away if
you develop a rash, fever, and feel ill, particularly during menstruation and
tampon use or if you have had recent surgery.

## Prevention

You can lower your risk for menstrual toxic shock syndrome by:

    * Avoiding highly absorbent tampons
    * Changing tampons frequently (at least every 8 hours)
    * Only using tampons onceÂ in awhile during menstruation 

## Alternative Names

Staphylococcal toxic shock syndrome; Toxic shock-like syndrome; TSLS

## Images

    * ![Normal uterine anatomy \(cut section\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8608t.jpg)Normal uterine anatomy (cut section)
    * ![Bacteria](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9095t.jpg)Bacteria

## References

Gardella C, Eckert LO, Lentz GM. Genital tract infections: vulva, vagina,
cervix, toxic shock syndrome, endometritis, and salpingitis. In:Â Lobo RA,
Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 23.

Larioza J, Brown RB. Toxic shock syndrome. In: Kellerman RD, Bope ET, eds.
_Conn's Current Therapy 2018_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2018;624-628.

Que Y-A, Moreillon P. Staphyloccus aureus (including Staphylococal toxic shock
syndrome). In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and
Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_.
8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 196.

## Review Date 6/5/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Sepsis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Sepsis_thumb.jpg)Sepsis _Read more_

![Staphylococcal
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/StaphylococcalInfections_thumb.jpg)Staphylococcal
Infections _Read more_

![Streptococcal
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/StreptococcalInfections_thumb.jpg)Streptococcal
Infections _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

