Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003744.htm    
                                Description: A blood culture is a laboratory test to check for bacteria or other germsÂ in a blood sample.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Blood culture

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003744.htm

# Blood culture

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A blood culture is a laboratory test to check for bacteria or other germsÂ in
a blood sample.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

The site where blood will be drawn is first cleaned with an antiseptic such as
chlorhexidine. This reduces the chance of an organism from the skin getting
into (contaminating) the blood sample and causing a false-positive result (see
below).

The sample is sent to a laboratory. There, it is placed in a special dish
(culture). It is then watched to see if bacteria or other disease-causing
germs grow. A gram stain may also be done. A gram stain is a method of
identifying bacteria using a special series of stains (colors). With some
infections, bacteria can be found in the blood only intermittently.Â So, a
series of three or more blood cultures may be done to increase the chance of
finding the infection.  

## How to Prepare for the Test

There is no special preparation.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or a slight bruise. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

Your health care provider may order this test if you have symptoms of a
serious infection, also known as sepsis. Symptoms of sepsis can include high
fever, chills, rapid breathing and heart rate, confusion, and low blood
pressure.

The blood culture helps identify the type of bacteria causing the infection.
This helps your provider determine how best to treat the infection.  

## Normal Results

A normal value means that no bacteria or other germs were seen in your blood
sample.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An abnormal (positive) result means that germs were identified in your blood.
The medical term for this is bacteremia. This can be the result of sepsis.
Sepsis is a medical emergency and you will be admitted to a hospital for
treatment.

Other types of germs, such as a fungus or a virus, may also be found in a
blood culture.

Sometimes, an abnormal result can be due to contamination. This means bacteria
may be found, but it came from your skin or from the lab equipment, instead of
your blood. This is called a false-positive result. It means you do not have a
true infection.

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another and from one side of the body to the
other. Taking blood from some people may be more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

## Alternative Names

Culture - blood

## References

Beavis KG, Charnot-Katsikas A. Specimen collection and handling for diagnosis
of infectious diseases. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical
Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 64.

Munford RS, Suffredini AF. Sepsis, severe sepis, and septic shock. In: Bennett
JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and
Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition._ 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 75.

Murray PR. The clinician and the microbiology laboratory. In: Bennett JE,
Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and
Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition._ 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 16.

## Review Date 10/8/2017

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bacterial
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Bacterialnfection_thumb.jpg)Bacterial
Infections _Read more_

![Sepsis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Sepsis_thumb.jpg)Sepsis _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

