Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000668.htm    
                                Description: Septic shock is a serious condition that occurs when a body-wide infection leads to dangerously low blood pressure.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Septic shock

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000668.htm

# Septic shock

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Septic shock is a serious condition that occurs when a body-wide infection
leads to dangerously low blood pressure.

## Causes

Septic shock occurs most often in the very old and the very young. It may also
occur in people with weakened immune systems.

Any type of bacteria can cause septic shock. Fungi and (rarely) viruses may
also cause the condition. Toxins released by the bacteria or fungi may cause
tissue damage. This may lead to low blood pressure and poor organ function.
Some researchers think that blood clots in small arteries cause the lack of
blood flow and poor organ function.

The body has a strong inflammatory response to the toxins that may contribute
to organ damage.

Risk factors for septic shock include:

    * Diabetes
    * Diseases of the genitourinary system, biliary system, or intestinal system
    * Diseases that weaken the immune system, such as AIDS
    * Indwelling catheters (those that remain in place for extended periods, especially intravenous lines and urinary catheters, and plastic and metal stents used for drainage)
    * Leukemia
    * Long-term use of antibiotics
    * Lymphoma
    * Recent infection
    * Recent surgery or medical procedure
    * Recent or current use of steroid medicines
    * Solid organ or bone marrow transplantation

## Symptoms

Septic shock can affect any part of the body, including the heart, brain,
kidneys, liver, and intestines. Symptoms may include:

    * Cool, pale arms and legs
    * High or very low temperature, chills
    * Lightheadedness
    * Little or no urine
    * Low blood pressure, especially when standing
    * Palpitations
    * Rapid heart rate
    * Restlessness, agitation, lethargy, or confusion
    * Shortness of breath
    * Skin rash or discoloration
    * Decreased mental status

## Exams and Tests

Blood tests may be done to check for:

    * Infection around the body
    * Complete blood count (CBC) and blood chemistry
    * Presence of bacteria or other organisms
    * Low blood oxygen level
    * Disturbances in the body's acid-base balance
    * Poor organ function or organ failure 

Other tests may include:

    * A chest x-ray to look for pneumonia or fluid in the lungs (pulmonary edema)
    * A urine sample to look for infection 

Additional studies, such as blood cultures, may not become positive for
several days after the blood has been taken, or for several days after the
shock has developed.

## Treatment

Septic shock is a medical emergency. In most cases, people are admitted to the
intensive care unit of the hospital.

Treatment may include:

    * Breathing machine (mechanical ventilation)
    * Dialysis
    * Drugs to treat low blood pressure, infection, or blood clotting
    * High volume of fluids given directly into a vein (intravenously)
    * Oxygen
    * Sedatives
    * Surgery to drain infected areas, if needed
    * Antibiotics

The pressure in the heart and lungs may be checked. This is called hemodynamic
monitoring. This can only be done with special equipment and intensive care
nursing.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Septic shock has a high death rate. The death rate depends on the person's age
and overall health, the cause of the infection, how many organs have failed,
and how quickly and aggressively medical therapy is started.

## Possible Complications

Respiratory failure, cardiac failure, or any other organ failure can occur.
Gangrene may occur, possibly leading to amputation.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Go directly to an emergency department if you develop symptoms of septic
shock.

## Prevention

Prompt treatment of bacterial infections is helpful. However, many cases of
septic shock cannot be prevented.

## Alternative Names

Bacteremic shock; Endotoxic shock; Septicemic shock; Warm shock

## References

Munford RS, Suffredini AF. Sepsis, severe sepsis, and septic shock. In:
Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds.Â _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's
Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition.Â_ 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 75.

Rivers EP. Approach to the patient with shock. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 106.

## Review Date 10/23/2017

Updated by: Denis Hadjiliadis, MD, MHS, Paul F. Harron, Jr. Associate
Professor of Medicine, Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care, Perelman School
of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Gangrene](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Gangrene_thumb.jpg)Gangrene _Read
more_

![Sepsis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Sepsis_thumb.jpg)Sepsis _Read more_

![Shock](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Shock_thumb.jpg)Shock _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

