Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000131.htm    
                                Description: You received stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS), or radiotherapy. This is a form of radiation therapy that focuses high-power x-rays onto a small area of your brain or spine.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Stereotactic radiosurgery - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000131.htm

# Stereotactic radiosurgery - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You received stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS), or radiotherapy. This is a form
of radiation therapy that focuses high-power x-rays onto a small area of your
brain or spine.

After you go home, follow your health care provider's instructions on how to
care for yourself. Use the information below as a reminder.

## When You're in the Hospital

More than one system is used to perform radiosurgery. You may have been
treated with CyberKnife or GammaKnife.

You may have a headache or feel dizzy after your treatment. This should go
away over time.

## Self-care

If you had pins that held a frame in place, they will be removed before you go
home.

    * You may feel some discomfort where the pins used to be. Bandages may be placed over the pin sites.
    * You can wash your hair after 24 hours.
    * Do not use hair coloring, perms, gels, or other hair products until the sites where the pins were placed are completely healed. 

If you had anchors placed, they will be taken out when you have received all
of your treatments. While the anchors are in place:

    * Clean the anchors and the surrounding skin three times a day.
    * Do not wash your hair while the anchors are in place.
    * A scarf or a lightweight hat may be worn to cover the anchors.
    * When the anchors are removed, you'll have small wounds to care for. Do not wash your hair until any staples or sutures are removed.
    * Do not use hair coloring, perms, gels, or other hair products until the sites where the anchors were placed are completely healed.
    * Watch the areas where the anchors are still in place, or where they were removed, for redness and drainage. 

If there are no complications, such as swelling, most people go back to their
regular activities the next day. Some people are kept in the hospital
overnight for monitoring. You may develop black eyes during the week after
surgery, but it is nothing to worry about.

You should be able to eat normal foods after your treatment. Ask your provider
about when to return to work.

Medicines to prevent brain swelling, nausea, and pain might be prescribed.
Take them as instructed.

## Follow-up

You'll most likely need to have an MRI, CT scan, or angiogram a few weeks or
months after the procedure. Your provider will schedule your follow-up visit.

You may need additional treatments:

    * If you have a brain tumor, you may need steroids, chemotherapy or open surgery.
    * If you have a vascular malformation, you may need open surgery or endovascular surgery.
    * If you have trigeminal neuralgia, you may need to take pain medicine.
    * If you have a pituitary tumor, you might need hormone replacement medicines.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your doctor if you have:

    * Redness, drainage, or worsening pain at the spot where the pins or anchors were placed
    * A fever that lasts more than 24 hours
    * A headache that is very bad or one that does not get better with time
    * Problems with your balance
    * Weakness in your arms or legs
    * Any changes in your strength, sensation of the skin, or thinking (confusion, disorientation)
    * Excessive fatigue
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Loss of sensation in your face

## Alternative Names

Gamma knife - discharge; Cyberknife - discharge; Stereotactic radiotherapy -
discharge; Fractionated stereotactic radiotherapy - discharge; Cyclotrons -
discharge; Linear accelerator - discharge; Lineacs - discharge; Proton beam
radiosurgery - discharge

## References

Radiological Society of North America website. Stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS)
and stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT).
www.radiologyinfo.org/en/info.cfm?pg=stereotactic. Updated February 17, 2017.
Accessed August 22, 2018.

Yu JS, Brown M, Suh JH, Ma L, Sahgal A. Radiobiology of radiotherapy and
radiosurgery. In: Winn HR, ed. _Youmans and Winn Neurological Surgery_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 262.

## Read More

    * Acoustic neuroma
    * Brain tumor - primary - adults
    * Cerebral arteriovenous malformation
    * Epilepsy - overview
    * Radiation therapy
    * Stereotactic radiosurgery - CyberKnife

## Review Date 7/9/2018

Updated by: Luc Jasmin, MD, PhD, FRCS (C), FACS, Department of Surgery,
Holston Valley Medical Center, TN; Department of Maxillofacial Surgery at
UCSF, San Francisco, CA. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Acoustic Neuroma
    * Arteriovenous Malformations
    * Brain Tumors
    * Childhood Brain Tumors
    * Pituitary Tumors
    * Radiation Therapy
    * Trigeminal Neuralgia

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

