Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001404.htm    
                                Description: Posterior fossa tumor is a type of brain tumor located in or near the bottom of the skull.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Posterior fossa tumor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001404.htm

# Posterior fossa tumor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Posterior fossa tumor is a type of brain tumor located in or near the bottom
of the skull.

## Causes

The posterior fossa is a small space in the skull, found near the brainstem
and cerebellum. The cerebellum is the part of the brain responsible for
balance and coordinated movements. The brainstem is responsible for
controlling vital body functions, such as breathing.

If a tumor grows in the area of the posterior fossa, it can block the flow of
spinal fluid and cause increased pressure on the brain and spinal cord.

Most tumors of the posterior fossa are primary brain cancers. They start in
the brain, rather than spreading from somewhere else in the body.

Posterior fossa tumors have no known causes or risk factors.

## Symptoms

Symptoms occur very early with posterior fossa tumors and may include:

    * Drowsiness 
    * Headache 
    * Imbalance
    * Nausea
    * Uncoordinated walk (ataxia)
    * Vomiting 

Symptoms from posterior fossa tumors also occur when the tumor damages local
structures, such as the cranial nerves. Symptoms of cranial nerve damage
include:

    * Dilated pupils
    * Eye problems
    * Face muscle weakness
    * Hearing loss
    * Loss of feeling in part of the face
    * Taste problems
    * Unsteadiness when walking
    * Vision problems

## Exams and Tests

Diagnosis is based on a thorough medical history and physical exam, followed
by imaging tests. The best way to look at the posterior fossa is with an MRI
scan. CT scans are not helpful to see that area of the brain in most cases.

The following procedures may be used to remove a piece of tissue from the
tumor to help with diagnosis:

    * Open brain surgery, called a posterior craniotomy
    * Stereotactic biopsy 

## Treatment

Most tumors of the posterior fossa are removed with surgery, even if they are
not cancerous. There is limited space in the posterior fossa, and the tumor
can easily press on delicate structures if it grows.

Depending on the type and size of the tumor, radiation treatment may also be
used after surgery.

## Support Groups

You can ease the stress of illness by joining a support group whose members
share common experiences and problems.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

A good outlook depends on finding the cancer early. A total blockage in the
flow of spinal fluid can be life threatening. If tumors are found early,
surgery can lead to long-term survival.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Cranial nerve palsies
    * Herniation
    * Hydrocephalus
    * Increased intracranial pressure

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have regular headaches that occur with
nausea, vomiting, or vision changes.

## Alternative Names

Infratentorial brain tumors; Brainstem glioma; Cerebellar tumor

## References

Arriaga MA, Brackmann DE. Neoplasms of the posterior fossa. In: Flint PW,
Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head and Neck
Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 177.

Dorsey JF, Hollander AB, Alonso-Basanta M, et al. Cancer of the central
nervous system. In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Doroshow JH, Kastan MB,
Tepper JE, eds. _Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 66.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longsteet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Brain Tumors](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BrainTumors_thumb.jpg)Brain
Tumors _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

