Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000769.htm    
                                Description: A metastatic brain tumor is cancer that started in another part of the body and has spread to the brain.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Metastatic brain tumor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000769.htm

# Metastatic brain tumor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A metastatic brain tumor is cancer that started in another part of the body
and has spread to the brain.

## Causes

Many tumor or cancer types can spread to the brain. The most common are:

    * Bladder cancer
    * Breast cancer
    * Kidney cancer
    * Leukemia
    * Lung cancer
    * Melanoma

Some types of cancerÂ rarely spread to the brain, such as colon cancerÂ and
prostate cancer. In other rare cases, a tumor can spread to the brain from an
unknown location. This is called cancer of unknown primary (CUP).

Growing brain tumorsÂ can place pressure on nearby parts of the brain. Brain
swelling due to these tumors also causes increased pressure within the skull.

Brain tumors that spread are classified based on the location of the tumor in
the brain, the type of tissue involved, and the original location of the
tumor.

Metastatic brain tumors occur in about one fourth (25%) of all cancers that
spread through the body. They are much more common than primary brain tumors
(tumors that start in the brain).

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

    * Decreased coordination, clumsiness, falls
    * Fever (sometimes)
    * General ill feeling or fatigue
    * Headache,Â new or more severe than usual
    * Memory loss, poor judgment, difficulty solving problems
    * Numbness, tingling, pain, and other changes in sensation
    * Personality changes
    * Rapid emotional changes or strange behaviors
    * Seizures that are new
    * Problems with speech
    * Vision changes, double vision, decreased vision
    * Vomiting, with or without nausea
    * Weakness of a body area 

Specific symptoms vary. Common symptoms of most types of metastatic brain
tumors are caused by increased pressure in the brain.

## Exams and Tests

An exam can show brain and nervous system changes based on where the tumor is
in the brain. Signs of increased pressure in the skull are also common. Some
tumors may not show signs until they are very large. Then, they can cause a
very quick decline in nervous system function.

The original (primary) tumor may be found by examining tumor tissues from the
brain.

Tests may include:

    * Chest x-ray,Â mammogram,Â CT scans of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis to find the original tumor site
    * CT scan or MRI of the brain to confirm the diagnosis and identify the tumor location (MRI is usually more sensitive for finding tumors in the brain)
    * Examination of tissue removed from the tumor during surgery or CT scan-guided biopsy to confirm the type of tumor
    * Lumbar puncture (spinal tap) 

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the size and type of the tumor, from where in the body it
spread, and the person's general health. The goals of treatment may be to
relieve symptoms, improve functioning, or provide comfort.

Radiation to the whole brain is often used to treat tumors that have spread to
the brain, especially if there are many tumors.

Surgery may be used when there is a single tumor and the cancer has not spread
to other parts of the body. Some tumors may be completely removed. Tumors that
are deep or that extend into brain tissue may be reduced in size (debulked).

Surgery may reduce pressure and relieve symptoms in cases when the tumor
cannot be removed.

Chemotherapy for metastatic brain tumors is usually not as helpful as surgery
or radiation. Some types of tumors, though, do respond to chemotherapy.

Stereotactic radiosurgery may also be used. This form of radiation therapy
focuses high-power x-rays on a small area of the brain.Â It is used when there
are only a few tumors.

Medicines for brain tumor symptoms include:

    * Antacids or antihistamines to control stress ulcers
    * Anticonvulsants such as phenytoin or levetiracetam to reduce or prevent seizures
    * Corticosteroids such as dexamethasone to reduce brain swelling
    * Osmotic diuretics such as urea or mannitol to reduce brain swelling
    * Pain medicines 

When the cancer has spread, treatment may focus on relieving pain and other
symptoms. This is called palliative or supportive care.

Comfort measures, safety measures, physical therapy, occupational therapy, and
other treatments may improve the patient's quality of life. Some people may
want to seek legal advice to help them create an advance directive and power
of attorney for health care.

## Support Groups

You can ease the stress of illness by joining a cancer support group. Sharing
with others who have common experiences and problems can help you not feel
alone.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

For many people with metastatic brain tumors, the cancer is not curable. It
will eventually spread to other areas of the body. Prognosis depends on the
type of tumor and how it responds to treatment.

## Possible Complications

Health problems that may result include:

    * Brain herniation (fatal)
    * Loss of ability to function or care for self
    * Loss of ability to interact
    * Permanent, severe loss of nervous system function that gets worse over time

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you develop a persistent headache that is
new or different for you.

Call your provider or go to the emergency room if you or someone you know
suddenly becomes sluggish or has vision changes, or speech impairment, or has
seizures that are new or different.

## Alternative Names

Brain tumor - metastatic (secondary); Cancer - brain tumor (metastatic)

## Patient Instructions

    * Brain radiation - discharge
    * Brain surgery - discharge
    * Radiation therapy - questions to ask your doctor

## Images

    * ![Brain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1074t.jpg)Brain

## References

Dorsey JF, Hollander AB, Alonso-Basanta M, et al. Cancer of the central
nervous system. In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Doroshow JH, Kastan MB,
TepperJE, eds. _Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 66.

National Cancer Institute website. Adult brain tumors treatment.
www.cancer.gov/cancertopics/pdq/treatment/adultbrain/HealthProfessional.
Updated January 31, 2018. Accessed March 22, 2018.

Patel AJ, Lang FF, Suki D, Wildrick DM, Sawaya R. Metastatic brain tumors. In:
Winn HR, ed. _Youmans and Winn Neurological Surgery_. 7th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 146.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Brain Tumors](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BrainTumors_thumb.jpg)Brain
Tumors _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

