Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000055.htm    
                                Description: When you have radiation treatment for cancer, your body goes through changes. Follow your health care provider    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Brain radiation - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000055.htm

# Brain radiation - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

When you have radiation treatment for cancer, your body goes through changes.
Follow your health care provider's instructions on how to care for yourself at
home. Use the information below as a reminder.

## What to Expect at Home

Two weeks after radiation treatment starts, you might notice changes in your
skin. Most of these symptoms go away after your treatments have stopped.

    * Your skin and mouth may turn red.
    * Your skin might start to peel or get dark.
    * Your skin may itch. 

Your hair will begin to fall out about 2 weeks after radiation treatment
starts. It may not grow back.

## Hair and Skin Care

When you have radiation treatment, color markings are drawn on your skin. DO
NOT remove them. These show where to aim the radiation. If they come off, DO
NOT redraw them. Tell your provider instead.

To care for your hair:

    * For the first 2 weeks of treatment, wash your hair once a week with a gentle shampoo, such as a baby shampoo.
    * After 2 weeks, use only warm water on your hair and scalp, without shampoo.
    * Dry gently with a towel.
    * DO NOT use a hair dryer.

If you wear a wig or toupee:

    * Be sure the lining does not bother your scalp.
    * Wear it only a few hours a day, during the time you are getting radiation treatments and right after treatment has ended.
    * Ask your provider when you can start to wear it more.

To care for your skin in the treatment area:

    * Wash the treatment area gently with lukewarm water only. Don't scrub your skin.
    * Don't use soaps.
    * Pat dry instead of rubbing dry.
    * Don't use lotions, ointments, makeup, perfumed powders, or other perfumed products on this area. Ask your provider what is OK to use.
    * Keep the area being treated out of direct sunlight. Wear a hat or scarf. Ask your provider if you should use sunscreen.
    * Don't scratch or rub your skin.
    * Ask your doctor for medicine if your scalp gets very dry and flaky, or if it gets red or tanned.
    * Tell your provider if you have any breaks or openings in your skin.
    * Don't put heating pads or ice bags on the treatment area.

Keep the treatment area in the open air as much as possible. But stay away
from very hot or cold temperatures.

Don't swim during treatment. Ask your provider when you can start swimming
after treatment.

## Other Self-care

You need to eat enough protein and calories to keep your weight and strength
up. Ask your provider about liquid food supplements that may help you get
enough calories.

Avoid sugary snacks and drinks that may cause tooth decay.

You will likely feel tired after a few days. If so:

    * Don't try to do too much. You probably will not be able to do everything you are used to.
    * Get more sleep at night. Rest during the day when you can.
    * Take a few weeks off work, or work less.

You may be taking a medicine called dexamethasone (Decadron) while you are
getting radiation to the brain.

    * It may make you hungrier, cause leg swelling or cramps, cause problems sleeping (insomnia), or cause changes in your mood.
    * These side effects will go away after you start taking less of the medicine, or when you stop taking it.

## Follow-up Care

Your provider may check your blood counts regularly.

## Alternative Names

Radiation - brain - discharge; Cancer - brain radiation; Lymphoma - brain
radiation; Leukemia - brain radiation

## References

Doroshow JH. Approach to the patient with cancer. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI,
eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 179.

National Cancer Institute website. Radiation therapy and you: support for
people with cancer. www.cancer.gov/publications/patient-
education/radiationttherapy.pdf. Updated October 2016. Accessed February 27,
2018.

## Read More

    * Brain tumor - children
    * Brain tumor - primary - adults
    * Metastatic brain tumor

## Patient Instructions

    * Drinking water safely during cancer treatment
    * Dry mouth during cancer treatment
    * Eating extra calories when sick - adults
    * Eating extra calories when sick - children
    * Oral mucositis - self-care
    * Radiation therapy - questions to ask your doctor
    * Safe eating during cancer treatment
    * When you have diarrhea
    * When you have nausea and vomiting

## Review Date 1/31/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Brain Tumors
    * Radiation Therapy

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

