Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000734.htm    
                                Description: Primary lymphoma of the brain is cancer of white blood cells that starts in the brain.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Primary lymphoma of the brain

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000734.htm

# Primary lymphoma of the brain

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Primary lymphoma of the brain is cancer of white blood cells that starts in
the brain.

## Causes

The cause of primary brain lymphoma is not known.

People with a weakened immune system are at high risk for primary lymphoma of
the brain. Common causes of a weakened immune system include HIV/AIDS and
having had an organ transplant (especially heart transplant).

Primary lymphoma of the brain may be linked to Epstein-Barr Virus (EBV),
especially in people with HIV/AIDS. EBV is the virus that causes
mononucleosis.

Primary brain lymphoma is more common in people ages 45 to 70. The rate of
primary brain lymphoma is rising. But this cancer is still very rare.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of primary brain lymphoma may include any of the following:

    * Changes in speech or vision
    * Confusion or hallucinations
    * Fever
    * Headaches or seizures
    * Leaning to one side when walking
    * Weakness in hands or loss of coordination
    * Numbness to hot, cold, and pain
    * Personality changes
    * Weight loss 

## Exams and Tests

The following tests may be done to help diagnose a primary lymphoma of the
brain:

    * Biopsy of the brain
    * Head CT scan or MRI
    * Spinal tap (lumbar puncture)

## Treatment

Primary lymphoma of the brain is usually first treated with corticosteroids.
These medicines are used to control swelling and improve symptoms. The main
treatment is with chemotherapy.

Younger people may receive high-dose chemotherapy, possibly followed by an
autologous stem cell transplant.

Radiation therapy of the whole brain may be done after chemotherapy.

Boosting the immune system, such as in those with HIV/AIDS, may also be tried.

You and your health care provider may need to manage other concerns during
your treatment, including:

    * Having chemotherapy at home
    * Managing your pets during chemotherapy
    * Bleeding problems
    * Dry mouth
    * Eating enough calories
    * Safe eating during cancer treatment

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Without treatment, people with primary brain lymphoma survive for less than 2
months. Those treated with chemotherapy often survive 3 to 4 years or more.
This depends on whether the tumor stays in remission. Survival may improve
with autologous stem cell transplant.

## Possible Complications

Possible complications include:

    * Chemotherapy side effects, including low blood counts
    * Radiation side effects, including confusion, headaches, nervous system (neurologic) problems, and tissue death
    * Return (recurrence) of the lymphoma

## Alternative Names

Brain lymphoma; Cerebral lymphoma; Primary lymphoma of the central nervous
system; PCNSL; Lymphoma - brain

## Images

    * ![Brain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1074t.jpg)Brain

## References

Baehring JM, Hochberg FH. Primary nervous system tumors in adults. In: Daroff
RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in
Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 74.

National Cancer Institute website. Primary CNS lymphoma treatment (PDQ) â
health professional version.
www.cancer.gov/cancertopics/pdq/treatment/primary-CNS-
lymphoma/HealthProfessional. Updated January 5, 2017. Accessed March 22, 2018.

National Comprehensive Cancer Network website. NCCN clinical practice
guidelines in oncology (NCCN guidelines): central nervous system cancers.
Version 1.2017. www.nccn.org/professionals/physician_gls/pdf/cns.pdf. Updated
August 18, 2017. Accessed March 22, 2018.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Brain Tumors](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BrainTumors_thumb.jpg)Brain
Tumors _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

