Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007577.htm    
                                Description: Stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) is a form of radiation therapy that focuses high-power energy on a small area of the body.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Stereotactic radiosurgery - Gamma Knife

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007577.htm

# Stereotactic radiosurgery - Gamma Knife

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) is a form of radiation therapy that focuses
high-power energy on a small area of the body.

Despite its name, radiosurgery is not actually a surgical procedure -- there
is no cutting or sewing, rather it is a radiation therapy treatment technique.

More than one system is used to perform radiosurgery. This article is about
Gamma Knife radiosurgery.

## Description

The Gamma Knife radiosurgery system is used to treat either cancers or growths
in the head or upper spine area. For cancers or growths lower down in the
spine or anywhere else in the body, another radio surgery system may be used.

Before treatment, you are fitted with a "head frame." This is a metal circle
that is used to precisely position you into the machine to improve accuracy
and pinpoint targeting. The frame is attached to your scalp and skull. The
process is performed by the neurosurgeon, but does not require cutting or
sewing.

    * Using local anesthesia (like a dentist might use), four points are numbed in the skin of the scalp.
    * The head frame is placed over your head and four small pins and anchors are attached. The anchors are designed to hold the head frame in place, and do go tightly through the skin into the surface of your skull.
    * You are given local anesthetic and should not feel pain, rather only pressure. You also are usually given a medicine to help relax you during the fitting procedure.
    * The frame will remain attached for the whole treatment procedure, usually a few hours, and then will be removed.

After the frame is attached to your head, imaging tests such as CT, MRI, or
angiogram are done. The images show the exact location, size, and shape of
your tumor or problem area and allow precision targeting.

After the imaging, you will be brought to a room to rest while the doctors and
physics team prepare the computer plan. That may take approximately 45 minutes
to an hour. Next, you will be brought to the treatment room.

During treatment:

    * You will not need to be put to sleep. You will get medicine to help you relax. The treatment itself does not cause pain.
    * You lie on a table that slides into a machine that delivers radiation.
    * The head frame aligns with the machine, which has a helmet with holes to deliver small precise beams of radiation directly to the target.
    * The machine may move your head slightly, so that the energy beams are delivered to the exact spots that need treatment.
    * The health care providers are in another room. They can see you on cameras and hear you and talk with you on microphones.

The treatment delivery takes anywhere from 20 minutes to 2 hours. You may
receive more than one treatment session. Most often, no more than 5 sessions
are needed.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Highly focused radiation beans using the Gamma Knife system target and destroy
an abnormal area. This minimizes damage to nearby healthy tissue. This
treatment is often an alternative to open neurosurgery.

Gamma Knife radiosurgery can be used to treat the following types of brain
tumors or upper spine tumors:

    * Cancer that has spread (metastasized) to the brain from another part of the body
    * A slow-growing tumor of the nerve that connects the ear to the brain (acoustic neuroma)
    * Pituitary tumors
    * Other growths in the brain or spinal cord (chordoma, meningioma) 

Gamma Knife is also used to treat other problems of the brain:

    * Blood vessel problems (arteriovenous malformation, arteriovenous fistula).
    * Some types of epilepsy.Â 
    * Trigeminal neuralgia (severe nerve pain of the face).
    * Severe tremors due to essential tremor or Parkinson disease.
    * It also may be used as an additional "adjuvant" therapy after a cancer has been surgically removed from the brain, to help reduce the risk of recurrence.

## Risks

Radiosurgery (or any type of treatment for that matter), may damage tissue
around the area being treated. Compared with other types of radiation therapy,
some believe that Gamma Knife radiosurgery, because it is delivering pinpoint
treatment, is less likely to damage nearby healthy tissue.

After radiation to the brain, local swelling, called edema, may occur. You may
be given medication before and after the procedure to lower this risk, but it
is still possible. Swelling usually goes away without further treatment. In
rare cases, hospitalization and surgery with incisions (open surgery) is
needed to treat the brain swelling caused by the radiation.

There are rare cases of swelling causing patients to have problems breathing,
and there are reports of fatalities after radiosurgery.

While this type of treatment is less invasive than open surgery, it still can
have risks. Talk with your doctor about the potential risks of treatment and
of the risks of tumor growth or spreading.

The skin wounds and locations where the head frame is attached to your scalp
may be red and sensitive after treatment. This should go away with time. There
may be some bruising.

## Before the Procedure

The day before your procedure:

    * DO NOT use any hair cream or hair spray.
    * DO NOT eat or drink anything after midnight unless told otherwise by your doctor. 

The day of your procedure:

    * Wear comfortable clothing.
    * Bring your regular prescription medicines with you to the hospital.
    * DO NOT wear jewelry, makeup, nail polish, or a wig or hairpiece.
    * You will be asked to remove contact lenses, eyeglasses, and dentures.
    * You will change into a hospital gown.
    * An intravenous (IV) line will be placed into your arm to deliver contrast material, medicines, and fluids. 

## After the Procedure

Often, you can go home the same day of treatment. Arrange ahead of time for
someone to drive you home, because the medicines you are given can make you
drowsy. You can go back to your regular activities the next day if there are
no complications, such as swelling. If you have complications, or your doctor
believes it is required, you may need to stay in the hospital overnight for
monitoring.

Follow instructions given to you by your nurses for how to care for yourself
at home.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The effects of Gamma Knife radiosurgery may take weeks or months to be seen.
The prognosis depends on the condition being treated. Your provider will
monitor your progress using imaging tests such as MRI and CT scans.

## Alternative Names

Stereotactic radiotherapy; Stereotactic radiosurgery; SRT; SBRT; Fractionated
stereotactic radiotherapy; SRS; Gamma Knife; Gamma Knife radiosurgery; Non-
invasive neurosugery; Epilepsy - Gamma Knife

## References

Baehring JM, Hochberg FH. Primary nervous system tumors in adults. In: Daroff
RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in
Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 74.

Brown PD, Jaeckle K, Ballman KV, et al. Effect of radiosurgery alone vs
radiosurgery with whole brain radiation therapy on cognitive function in
patients with 1 to 3 brain metastases: a randomized clinical trial. _JAMA_.
2016;316(4):401-409. PMID: 27458945 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27458945.

Lee CC, Schlesinger DJ, Sheehan JP. Radiosurgery technique. In: Winn RH, ed.
_Youmans and Winn Neurological Surgery_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 264.

Welling DB, Spear SA, Packer MD. Stereotactic radiation treatment of benign
tumors of the cranial base. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds.
_Cummings Otolaryngology: Head & Neck Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 179.

## Review Date 6/14/2018

Updated by: David Herold, MD, radiation oncologist in West Palm Beach, FL.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Acoustic
Neuroma](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AcousticNeuroma_thumb.jpg)Acoustic
Neuroma _Read more_

![Brain Tumors](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BrainTumors_thumb.jpg)Brain
Tumors _Read more_

![Radiation
Therapy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/RadiationTherapy2_thumb.jpg)Radiation
Therapy _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

