Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001211.htm    
                                Description: A hypothalamic tumor is an abnormal growth in the hypothalamus gland, which is located in the brain.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hypothalamic tumor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001211.htm

# Hypothalamic tumor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A hypothalamic tumor is an abnormal growth in the hypothalamus gland, which is
located in the brain.

## Causes

The exact cause of hypothalamic tumors is not known. It is likely that they
result from a combination of genetic and environmental factors.

In children, most hypothalamic tumors are gliomas. Gliomas are a common type
of brain tumor that results from the abnormal growth of glial cells, which
support nerve cells. Gliomas can occur at any age. They are often more
aggressive in adults than in children.

In adults, tumors in the hypothalamus are more likely cancer that has spread
from another organ.

People with neurofibromatosis (a hereditary condition) are at increased risk
for this type of tumor. People who have undergone radiation therapy are at
increased risk of developing tumors in general.

## Symptoms

These tumors can cause a range of symptoms:

    * Euphoric "high" sensations
    * Failure to thrive (lack of normal growth in children)
    * Headache
    * Hyperactivity
    * Loss of body fat and appetite (cachexia) 

These symptoms are most often seen in children whose tumors affect the front
part of the hypothalamus.

Some tumors may cause vision loss. If the tumors block the flow of spinal
fluid, headaches and sleepiness may result from fluid collecting in the brain
(hydrocephalus).

Some people can have seizures as a result of brain tumors. Other people may
develop precocious puberty from a change in pituitary gland function.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider may see signs of a hypothalamic tumor during a
regular checkup. A brain and nervous system (neurological) exam, including
tests of visual function, may be done. Blood tests for hormone imbalances may
also be ordered.

Depending on the results of the examination and blood tests, a CT scan or MRI
scan can determine whether you have a hypothalamic tumor.

Visual field testing may be done to check for vision loss, and to determine
whether the condition is improving or getting worse.

## Treatment

The treatment depends on how aggressive the tumor is, and whether it is a
glioma or another type of cancer. Treatment may involve combinations of
surgery, radiation, and chemotherapy.

Special radiation treatments can be focused on the tumor. They can be as
effective as surgery, with less risk to surrounding tissue. Brain swelling
caused by a tumor may need to be treated with steroids.

Hypothalamic tumors may produce hormones or affect hormone production, leading
to imbalances that may need to be corrected. In some cases, hormones may need
to be replaced or reduced.

## Support Groups

You can often help the stress of illness by joining a support group where
members share common experiences and problems.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outlook depends on:

    * The type of tumor (glioma or other type)
    * Location of tumor
    * Grade of tumor
    * Size of tumor
    * Your age and general health 

In general, gliomas in adults are more aggressive than in children and usually
have a worse outcome. Tumors that cause hydrocephalus may cause more
complications, and may need surgery.

## Possible Complications

Complications of brain surgery may include:

    * Bleeding
    * Brain damage
    * Death (rarely)
    * Infection 

Seizures can result from the tumor or from any surgical procedure on the
brain.

Hydrocephalus can occur with some tumors and can require surgery or a catheter
placed in the brain to reduce spinal fluid pressure.

Risks for radiation therapy include damage to healthy brain cells when tumor
cells are destroyed.

Common side effects from chemotherapy include loss of appetite, nausea and
vomiting, and fatigue.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you or your child develops any symptoms of a
hypothalamic tumor. Regular medical check-ups may detect early signs of a
problem, such as abnormal weight gain or early puberty.

## Alternative Names

Hypothalamic glioma; Hypothalamus - tumor

## References

Molitch ME. Neuroendocrinology and the neuroendocrine system. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 223.

Ntali G, Karavitaki N. Childhood hypothalamic and pituitary tumors. In:
Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and
Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 17.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Brain Tumors](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BrainTumors_thumb.jpg)Brain
Tumors _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

