Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001252.htm    
                                Description: Osteitis fibrosa is a complication of hyperparathyroidism, a condition in which certain bones become abnormally weak and deformed.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Osteitis fibrosa

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001252.htm

# Osteitis fibrosa

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Osteitis fibrosa is a complication of hyperparathyroidism, a condition in
which certain bones become abnormally weak and deformed.

## Causes

The parathyroid glands are 4 tiny glands in the neck. These glands produce
parathyroid hormone (PTH). PTH helps control calcium, phosphorus, and vitamin
D levels in the blood and is important for healthy bones.

Too much parathyroid hormone (hyperparathyroidism) can lead to increased bone
breakdown, which can cause bones to become weaker and more fragile. Many
people with hyperparathyroidism develop osteoporosis. Not all bones respond to
PTH in the same way. Some develop abnormal areas where the bone is very soft
and has almost no calcium in it. This is osteitis fibrosa.

In rare cases, parathyroid cancer causes osteitis fibrosa.

Osteitis fibrosa is now very rare in people who have hyperparathyroidism who
have good access to medical care. It is more common in people who develop
hyperparathyroidism at a young age, or who have untreated hyperparathyroidism
for a long time.

## Symptoms

Osteitis fibrosa may cause bone pain or tenderness. There may be fractures
(breaks) in the arms, legs, or spine, or other bone problems.

Hyperparathyroidism itself may cause any of the following:

    * Nausea
    * Constipation
    * Fatigue
    * Frequent urination
    * Weakness

## Exams and Tests

Blood tests show a high level of calcium, parathyroid hormone, and alkaline
phosphatase (a bone chemical). Phosphorus level in the blood may be low.

X-rays may show thin bones, fractures, bowing, and cysts. Teeth x-rays may
also be abnormal.

A bone x-ray may be done. People with hyperparathyroidism are more likely to
have osteopenia (thin bones) or osteoporosis (very thin bones) than to have
full-blown osteitis fibrosa.

## Treatment

Most of the bone problems from osteitis fibrosa can be reversed with surgery
to remove the abnormal parathyroid gland(s). Some people may choose not to
have surgery, and instead be followed with blood tests and bone measurements.

If surgery is not possible, medicines can sometimes be used to lower calcium
level.

## Possible Complications

Complications of osteitis fibrosa include any of the following:

    * Bone fractures
    * Deformities of bone
    * Pain
    * Problems due to hyperparathyroidism, such as kidney stones and kidney failure

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have bone pain, tenderness, or symptoms
of hyperparathyroidism.

## Prevention

Routine blood tests done during a medical checkup or for another health
problem usually detect a high calcium level before severe damage is done.

## Alternative Names

Osteitis fibrosa cystica; Hyperparathyroidism - osteitis fibrosa

## Images

    * ![Parathyroid glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8890t.jpg)Parathyroid glands

## References

Silverberg SJ, Bilezikian JP. Primary hyperparathyroidism. In: Jameson JL, De
Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 63.

Thakker RV. The parathyroid glands, hypercalcemia and hypocalcemia. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 245.

## Review Date 5/17/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bone Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BoneDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bone
Diseases _Read more_

![Parathyroid
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ParathyroidDisorders_thumb.jpg)Parathyroid
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

