Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000364.htm    
                                Description: Pseudohypoparathyroidism (PHP)Â is a genetic disorder in which the body fails to respond to parathyroid hormone.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pseudohypoparathyroidism

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000364.htm

# Pseudohypoparathyroidism

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pseudohypoparathyroidism (PHP)Â is a genetic disorder in which the body fails
to respond to parathyroid hormone.

A related condition is hypoparathyroidism,Â in which the body does not make
enough parathyroid hormone.Â

## Causes

The parathyroid glands produce parathyroid hormone (PTH). PTH helps control
calcium, phosphorus, and vitamin D levels in the blood and bone.

If you have PHP, your body produces the right amount of PTH, but is
"resistant" to its effect. This causes low blood calcium levels and high blood
phosphate levels.

PHP is caused by abnormal genes. There are different types of PHP. All forms
are rare.

    * Type Ia is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. That means only one parent needs to pass you the faulty gene for you to have the condition. It is also called Albright hereditary osteodystrophy. The condition causes short stature, round face, obesity, developmental delay,Â and short hand bones. Symptoms depend on whether you inherit the gene from your mother or father.
    * Type Ib involves resistance to PTH only in the kidneys. Less is known about type Ib than type Ia. Calcium in the blood is low, but there are no symptoms of Albright hereditary osteodystrophy.
    * Type II also involves low blood calcium and high blood phosphate levels. People with this form do not have the physical traits common to people with Type Ia. The genetic abnormality that causes it is not known. 

## Symptoms

Symptoms are related to aÂ low level of calcium and include:

    * Cataracts
    * Dental problems
    * Numbness
    * Seizures
    * Tetany (a collection of symptoms including muscle twitches and hand and foot cramps and muscle spasms) 

People with Albright hereditary osteodystrophy may have the following
symptoms:

    * Calcium deposits under the skin
    * Dimples that can replace knuckles on affected fingers
    * Round face and short neck
    * Short hand bones, especially the bone below the 4th finger
    * Short height 

## Exams and Tests

Blood tests will be done to check calcium, phosphorus, and PTH levels. You may
also need urine tests.

Other tests may include:

    * Genetic testing
    * Head MRI or CT scan of the brain

## Treatment

YourÂ health care providerÂ will recommend calcium and vitamin D supplements
to maintain a proper calcium level. If the blood phosphate levelÂ is high, you
may need to follow aÂ low-phosphorus diet or take medicines called phosphate
binders (such as calcium carbonate or calcium acetate).

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Low blood calcium inÂ PHP is usually milder than in other forms of
hypoparathyroidism.

## Possible Complications

People with type Ia PHPÂ are more likely to have other endocrine system
problems (such as hypothyroidism and hypogonadism).

PHP may be connected to other hormone problems, resulting in:

    * Low sex drive
    * Slow sexual development
    * Low energy levels
    * Weight gain 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your provider if you or your child have any symptoms of a low calcium
level or pseudohypoparathyroidism.

## Alternative Names

Albright hereditary osteodystrophy; Types 1A and 1B pseudohypoparathyroidism;
PHP

## Images

    * ![Endocrine glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1093t.jpg)Endocrine glands
    * ![Parathyroid glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8890t.jpg)Parathyroid glands

## References

Bastepe M, Juppner H. Pseudohypoparathyroidism, Albright's hereditary
osteodystrophy, and progressive osseous heteroplasia. In: Jameson JL, De Groot
LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 66.

Doyle DA. Pseudohypoparathyroidism (Albright hereditary osteodystrophy). In:
Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics._ 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 572.

Thakker RV. The parathyroid glands, hypercalcemia and hypocalcemia. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine._ 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 245.

## Review Date 5/17/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bone Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BoneDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bone
Diseases _Read more_

![Metabolic
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MetabolicDisorders_thumb.jpg)Metabolic
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

