Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003477.htm    
                                Description: The calcium blood test measures the level of calcium in the blood.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Calcium blood test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003477.htm

# Calcium blood test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The calcium blood test measures the level of calcium in the blood.

This article discusses the test to measure the total amount of calcium in your
blood. About one half of the calcium in the blood is attached to proteins,
mainly albumin.

A separate test that measures calcium that is not attached to proteins in your
blood is sometimes performed. Such calcium is called free or ionized calcium.

Calcium can also be measured in the urine.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Your health care provider may tell you to temporarily stop taking certain
medicines that can affect the test. These medicines may include:

    * Calcium salts (may be found in nutritional supplements or antacids)
    * Lithium
    * Thiazide diuretics (water pills)
    * Thyroxine
    * Vitamin D 

Drinking too much milk (2 or more quarts or 2 liters a day or a large amount
of other dairy products) or taking too much vitamin D as a dietary supplement
can also increase blood calcium levels.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or slight bruising. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

All cells need calcium in order to work. Calcium helps build strong bones and
teeth. It is important for heart function, and helps with muscle contraction,
nerve signaling, and blood clotting.

Your doctor may order this test if you have signs or symptoms of:

    * Certain bone diseases
    * Certain cancers, such as multiple myeloma, a cancer of the breast, lung, neck, and kidney
    * Chronic kidney disease
    * Chronic liver disease
    * Disorders of the parathyroid glands (hormone made by these glands controls calcium and vitamin D levels in the blood)
    * Disorders that affect how your intestines absorb nutrients
    * Overactive thyroid gland or taking too much thyroid hormone medicine
    * Abnormal vitamin D level 

Your doctor may also order this test if you have been on bed rest for a long
time.

## Normal Results

Normal values range from 8.5 to 10.2 mg/dL (2.13 to 2.55 millimol/L).

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some
laboratories use different measurements or may test different specimens. Talk
to your doctor about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A higher than normal level may be due to a number of health conditions. Common
causes include:

    * Being on bed rest for a long time.
    * Consuming too much calcium or vitamin D.
    * Hyperparathyroidism (parathyroid glands make too much of their hormone; often associated with a low vitamin D level).
    * Infections that cause granulomas such as tuberculosis and certain fungal and mycobacterial infections.
    * Multiple myeloma, T cell lymphoma and certain other cancers.
    * Metastatic bone tumor (bone cancer that has spread).
    * Overactive thyroid gland (hyperthyroidism) or too much thyroid hormone replacement medicine.
    * Paget disease. Abnormal bone destruction and regrowth, causing deformity of the affected bones.
    * Sarcoidosis. Lymph nodes, lungs, liver, eyes, skin, or other tissues become swollen or inflamed.
    * Tumors producing a parathyroid hormone-like substance.
    * Use of certain medicines such as lithium, tamoxifen, and thiazides. 

A lower than normal levels may be due to:

    * Disorders that affect absorption of nutrients from the intestines
    * Hypoparathyroidism (parathyroid glands do not make enough of their hormone)
    * Kidney failure
    * Low blood level of albumin
    * Liver disease
    * Magnesium deficiency
    * Pancreatitis
    * Vitamin D deficiency 

## Risks

There is very little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and
arteries vary in size from one person to another and from one side of the body
to the other. Taking blood from some people may be more difficult than from
others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins 

## Alternative Names

Ca+2; Serum calcium; Ca++; Hyperparathyroidism - calcium level; Osteoporosis -
calcium level; Hypercalcemia - calcium level; Hypocalcemia - calcium level

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Calcium, total - serum. In: Chernecky CC, Berger BJ,
eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO:
Elsevier Saunders; 2013:280-282.

Smogorzewski MJ, Stubbs JR, Yu ASL. Disorders of calcium, magnesium, and
phosphate balance. In: Skorecki K, Chertow GM, Marsden PA, Taal MW, Yu ASL,
eds. _Brenner and Rector's The Kidney_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 19.

## Review Date 11/20/2017

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bone Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BoneDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bone
Diseases _Read more_

![Calcium](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Calcium2_thumb.jpg)Calcium _Read
more_

![Kidney Tests](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyTests_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Tests _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

