Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001585.htm    
                                Description: Bowlegs is a condition in which the knees stay wide apart when a person stands with the feet and ankles together. It is considered normal in children under 18 months.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bowlegs

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001585.htm

# Bowlegs

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Bowlegs is a condition in which the knees stay wide apart when a person stands
with the feet and ankles together. It is considered normal in children under
18 months.

## Causes

Infants are born bowlegged because of their folded position in the mother's
womb. Bowed legs begin to straighten once the child starts to walk and the
legs begin to bear weight (about 12 to 18 months old).

By around age 3, the child can most often stand with the ankles apart and the
knees just touching. If the bowed legs are still present, the child is called
bowlegged.

Bowlegs may be caused by illnesses, such as:

    * Abnormal bone development
    * Blount disease
    * Fractures thatÂ do notÂ heal correctly
    * Lead or fluoride poisoning
    * Rickets, which is caused by a lack of vitamin D

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

    * Knees thatÂ do notÂ touch when standing with feet together (ankles touching)
    * Bowing of legs is same on both sides of the body (symmetrical)
    * Bowed legs continue beyond age 3 

## Exams and Tests

A health care provider can often diagnose bowlegs by looking at the child. The
distance between the knees is measured while the child is lying on the back.

Blood tests may be needed to rule out rickets.

X-rays may be needed if:

    * The child is 3 years old or older.
    * The bowing is getting worse.
    * Bowing is not the same on both sides.
    * Other test results suggest disease.

## Treatment

No treatment is recommended for bowlegs unless the condition is extreme. The
child should be seen by the provider at least every 6 months.

Special shoes, braces, or casts can be tried if the condition is severe or the
child also has another disease. It is unclear how well these work.

At times, surgery is done to correct the deformity in an adolescent with
severe bowlegs.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

In many cases the outcome is good, and there is most often no problem walking.

## Possible Complications

Bowlegs that does not go away and is not treated may lead to arthritis in the
knees or hips over time.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if your child shows ongoing or worsening bowed legs after
age 3.

## Prevention

There is no known way to prevent bowlegs, other than to avoid rickets. Make
sure your child is exposed to sunlight and gets the proper amount of vitamin D
in their diet.

## Alternative Names

Genu varum

## References

Canale ST. Osteochondrosis of epiphysitis and other miscellaneous affections.
In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_.
13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 32.

Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF. Torsional and angular
deformities. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson
Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 675.

## Review Date 10/11/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bone Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BoneDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bone
Diseases _Read more_

![Leg Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LegInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Leg
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

