Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003470.htm    
                                Description: Alkaline phosphatase (ALP) is a protein found in all body tissues. Tissues with higher amounts of ALP include the liver, bile ducts, and bone.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

ALP - blood test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003470.htm

# ALP - blood test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Alkaline phosphatase (ALP) is a protein found in all body tissues. Tissues
with higher amounts of ALP include the liver, bile ducts, and bone.

A blood test can be done to measure the level of ALP.

A related test is the ALP isoenzyme test.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed. Most of the time blood is drawn from a vein located
on the inside of the elbow or the back of the hand.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You should not to eat or drink anything for 6 hours before the test, unless
your health care provider tells you otherwise.

Many medicines can interfere with blood test results.

    * Your provider will tell you if you need to stop taking any medicines before you have this test.
    * DO NOT stop or change your medicines without talking to your provider first. 

## How the Test will Feel

You may feel slight pain or a sting when the needle is inserted. You may also
feel some throbbing at the site after the blood is drawn.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test may be done:

    * To diagnose liver or bone disease
    * To check, if treatments for those diseases are working
    * As part of a routine liver function test 

## Normal Results

The normal range is 44 to 147 international units per liter (IU/L) or 0.73 to
2.45 microkatal per liter (Âµkat/L).

Normal values may vary slightly from laboratory to laboratory. They also can
vary with age and gender. High levels of ALP are normally seen in children
undergoing growth spurts and in pregnant women.

The examples above show the common measurements for results for these tests.
Some laboratories use different measurements or may test different specimens.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be due to the following conditions:

Higher-than-normal ALP levels

    * Biliary obstruction
    * Bone disease
    * Eating a fatty meal if you have blood type O or B
    * Healing fracture
    * Hepatitis
    * Hyperparathyroidism
    * Leukemia
    * Liver disease
    * Lymphoma
    * Osteoblastic bone tumors
    * Osteomalacia
    * Paget disease
    * Rickets
    * Sarcoidosis 

Lower-than-normal ALP levels

    * Hypophosphatasia
    * Malnutrition
    * Protein deficiency
    * Wilson disease 

Other conditions for which the test may be done:

    * Alcoholic liver disease (hepatitis/cirrhosis)
    * Alcoholism
    * Biliary stricture
    * Gallstones
    * Giant cell (temporal, cranial) arteritis
    * Multiple endocrine neoplasia (MEN) II
    * Pancreatitis
    * Renal cell carcinoma

## Alternative Names

Alkaline phosphatase

## References

Berk PD, Korenblat KM. Approach to the patient with jaundice or abnormal liver
tests. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 147.

Fogel EL, Sherman S. Diseases of the gallbladder and bile ducts. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 155.

Martin P. Approach to the patient with liver disease. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 146.

Pincus MR, Abraham NZ. Interpreting laboratory results. In: McPherson RA,
Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory
Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 8.

## Review Date 4/29/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bile
Duct](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BileDuctCancerandDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bile
Duct Diseases _Read more_

![Bone Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BoneDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bone
Diseases _Read more_

![Paget's Disease of
Bone](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PagetsDiseaseofBone_thumb.jpg)Paget's
Disease of Bone _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

