Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001230.htm    
                                Description: A bone tumor is an abnormal growth of cells within a bone. A bone tumor may be cancerous (malignant) or noncancerous (benign).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bone tumor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001230.htm

# Bone tumor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A bone tumor is an abnormal growth of cells within a bone. A bone tumor may be
cancerous (malignant) or noncancerous (benign).

## Causes

The cause of bone tumors is unknown. They often occur in areas of the bone
that grow rapidly. Possible causes include:

    * Genetic defects passed down through families
    * Radiation
    * Injury 

In most cases, no specific cause is found.

Osteochondromas are the most common noncancerous (benign) bone tumors. They
occur most often in young people between the ages of 10 and 20.

Cancers that start in the bones are called primary bone tumors. Bone cancers
that start in another part of the body (such as the breast, lungs, or colon)
are called secondary or metastatic bone tumors. They behave very differently
from primary bone tumors.

Cancerous primary bone tumors include:

    * Chondrosarcoma
    * Ewing sarcoma
    * Fibrosarcoma
    * Osteosarcomas

Cancers that most often spread to the bone are cancers of the:

    * Breast
    * Kidney
    * Lung
    * Prostate
    * Thyroid 

These forms of cancer usually affect older people.

Bone cancer is more common in people who have a family history of cancers.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of bone tumor may include any of the following:

    * Bone fracture, especially from slight injury (trauma)
    * Bone painÂ may be worse at night
    * Occasionally a mass and swelling can be felt at the tumor site 

Some benign tumors have no symptoms.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. Tests that may be done
include:

    * Alkaline phosphatase blood level
    * Bone biopsy
    * Bone scan
    * Chest x-ray
    * CT scan of the chest
    * MRI of the bone and surrounding tissue
    * X-ray of bone and surrounding tissue 
    * PET scan

These following tests may also be ordered to monitor the disease:

    * Alkaline phosphatase isoenzyme
    * Blood calcium level
    * Parathyroid hormone
    * Blood phosphorus level 

## Treatment

Some benign bone tumors go away on their own and do not need treatment. Your
provider will closely monitor you. You will likely need regular imaging tests,
such as x-rays, to see if the tumor shrinks or grows.

Surgery may be needed to remove the tumor in some cases.

Treatment for cancerous bone tumors that have spread from other parts of the
body depends on where the cancer started. Radiation therapy may be given to
prevent fractures or to relieve pain. Chemotherapy may be used to prevent
fractures or the need for surgery or radiation.

Tumors that start in the bone are rare. After biopsy, a combination of
chemotherapy and surgery is usually necessary. Radiation therapy may be needed
before or after surgery.

## Support Groups

You can ease the stress of illness by joining a cancer support group. Sharing
with others who have common experiences and problems can help you not feel
alone.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well you do depends on the type of bone tumor.

Outcome is usually good in people with noncancerous (benign) tumors. But some
benign bone tumors can turn into cancer.

People with cancerous bone tumors that have not spread may be cured. The cure
rate depends on the type of cancer, location, size, and other factors. Talk to
your provider about your particular cancer.

## Possible Complications

Problems that may result from the tumor or treatment include:

    * Pain
    * Reduced function, depending on the tumor
    * Side effects of chemotherapy
    * Spread of the cancer to other nearby tissues (metastasis) 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of a bone tumor.

## Alternative Names

Tumor - bone; Bone cancer; Primary bone tumor; Secondary bone tumor; Bone
tumor - benign

## Images

    * ![X-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1057t.jpg)X-ray
    * ![Skeleton](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1115t.jpg)Skeleton
    * ![Osteogenic sarcoma - X-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1232t.jpg)Osteogenic sarcoma - x-ray
    * ![Ewing sarcoma - X-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1233t.jpg)Ewing sarcoma - x-ray

## References

Coleman RE, Holen I. Bone metastases. In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO,
Doroshow JH, Kastan MB, Tepper JE, eds. _Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 51.

Heck RK, Toy PC. Benign/aggressive tumors of bone. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH,
Canale ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 26.

Heck RK, Toy PC. Malignant tumors of bone. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale ST,
eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 27.

National Comprehensive Cancer Network website. NCCN clinical practice
guidelines in oncology (NCCN guidelines): Bone cancer. Version 1.2018.
www.nccn.org/professionals/physician_gls/pdf/bone.pdf. Updated August 29,
2017. Accessed March 22, 2018.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Bone Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BoneCancer_thumb.jpg)Bone Cancer
_Read more_

![Bone Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BoneDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bone
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

