Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003810.htm    
                                Description: This test is an x-ray of a knee, shoulder, hip, wrist, ankle, or other joint.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Joint x-ray

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003810.htm

# Joint x-ray

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

This test is an x-ray of a knee, shoulder, hip, wrist, ankle, or other joint.

## How the Test is Performed

The test is done in a hospital radiology department or in the health care
provider's office. The x-ray technologist will help you position the joint to
be x-rayed on the table. Once in place, pictures are taken. The joint may be
moved into other positions for more images.

## How to Prepare for the Test

TellÂ the health care provider if you are pregnant. Remove all jewelry before
the x-ray.

## How the Test will Feel

The x-ray is painless. It may be uncomfortable to move the joint into
different positions.

## Why the Test is Performed

TheÂ x-ray is used to detect fractures, tumors, or degenerative conditions of
the joint.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

The x-ray may show:

    * Arthritis
    * Fractures
    * Bone tumors
    * Degenerative bone conditions
    * Osteomyelitis (inflammation of the bone caused by an infection) 

The test may also be performed to find out more about the following
conditions:

    * Acute gouty arthritis (gout)
    * Adult-onset Still disease
    * Caplan syndrome
    * Chondromalacia patellae
    * Chronic gouty arthritis
    * Congenital dislocation of the hip
    * Fungal arthritis
    * Non-gonococcal (septic) bacterial arthritis
    * Osteoarthritis
    * Pseudogout
    * Psoriatic arthritis
    * Reiter syndrome
    * Rheumatoid arthritis
    * Runner's knee
    * Tuberculous arthritis 

## Risks

There is low radiation exposure. X-ray machines are set to provide the
smallest amount of radiation exposure needed to produce the image. Most
experts feel that the risk is low compared with the benefits. Children and the
fetuses of pregnant women are more sensitive to the risks of the x-ray. A
protective shield may be worn over areas not being scanned.

## Alternative Names

X-ray - joint; Arthrography; Arthrogram

## References

Bearcroft PWP, Hopper MA. Imaging techniques and fundamental observations for
the musculoskeletal system. In: Adam A, Dixon AK, Gillard JH, Schaefer-Prokop
CM, eds. _Grainger & Allison's Diagnostic Radiology: A Textbook of Medical
Imaging_. 6th ed. New York, NY: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone; 2015:chap 45.

Contreras F, Perez J, Jose J. Imaging overview. In: Miller MD, Thompson SR.
eds. _DeLee and Drez's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2020:chap 7.

## Review Date 5/13/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Arthritis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ArthritisII_thumb.jpg)Arthritis
_Read more_

![Bone Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BoneCancer_thumb.jpg)Bone Cancer
_Read more_

![Bone Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BoneDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bone
Diseases _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

