Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000376.htm    
                                Description: Osteomalacia is softening of the bones. It most often occurs because of a problem with vitamin D, which helps your body absorb calcium. Your body needs calcium to maintain the strength and hardness of    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Osteomalacia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000376.htm

# Osteomalacia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Osteomalacia is softening of the bones. It most often occurs because of a
problem with vitamin D, which helps your body absorb calcium. Your body needs
calcium to maintain the strength and hardness of your bones.

In children, the condition is called rickets.

## Causes

A lack of the proper amount of calcium leads to weak and soft bones.

Vitamin D is absorbed from food or produced by the skin when exposed to
sunlight. Lack of vitamin D produced by the skin may occur in people who:

    * Live in climates with little exposure to sunlight
    * Must stay indoors
    * Work indoors during the daylight hours
    * Wear clothes that cover most of their skin
    * Have dark skin pigmentation
    * Use very strong sunscreen 

You may not get enough vitamin D from your diet if you:

    * Are lactose intolerant (have trouble digesting milk products)
    * Do not eat or drink milk products (more common in older adults)
    * Follow a vegetarian diet
    * Are not able to absorb vitamin D well in the intestines, such as after gastric bypass surgery 
![Vitamin D deficit](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/18111.jpg)

Other conditions that may cause osteomalacia include:

    * Cancer
    * Kidney failure and acidosis
    * Lack of enough phosphates in the diet
    * Liver disease, and therefore cannot convert vitamin D to its active form
    * Side effects of medicines used to treat seizures

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

    * Bone fractures that happen without a real injury
    * Muscle weakness
    * Widespread bone pain, especially in the hips

Symptoms may also occur due to low calcium level. These include:

    * Numbness around the mouth
    * Numbness or tingling of the arms and legs
    * Spasms or cramps of the hands or feet

## Exams and Tests

Blood tests will be done to check vitamin D, creatinine, calcium, phosphate,
electrolytes, alkaline phosphatase, and parathyroid hormone levels.

Bone x-rays and a bone density test can help detect pseudofractures, bone
loss, and bone softening. More importantly, osteomalacia can look like
weakening of the bones from osteoporosis on bone density testing.

In some cases, a bone biopsy will be done to see if bone softening is present.

## Treatment

Treatment may involve vitamin D, calcium, and phosphorus supplements taken by
mouth. People who cannot absorb nutrients well through the intestines may need
larger doses of vitamin D and calcium. This includes people who haveÂ some
types of weight loss surgery.

People with certain conditions may need regular blood tests to monitor blood
levels of phosphorus and calcium.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Some people with vitamin deficiency disorders will get better within a few
weeks. With treatment, healing should happen within 6 months.

## Possible Complications

Symptoms can return.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have symptoms of osteomalacia, or if you
think that you may be at risk for this disorder.

## Prevention

Eating a diet rich in vitamin D and calcium and getting sufficient exposure to
sunlight can help prevent osteomalacia due to a vitamin D deficiency.

## Alternative Names

Vitamin D deficiency - osteomalacia; Calcium - osteomalacia

## Images

    * ![Vitamin D deficit](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18111t.jpg)Vitamin D deficit
    * ![Calcium benefit](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18121t.jpg)Calcium benefit

## References

Bringhurst FR, Demay MB, Kronenberg HM. Hormones and disorders of mineral
metabolism. In: Melmed S, Polonsky KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds.
_Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 28.

Demay MB, Krane SM. Disorders of mineralization. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ,
de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 71.

Weinstein RS. Osteomalacia and rickets. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 244.

## Review Date 5/17/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bone Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BoneDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bone
Diseases _Read more_

![Vitamin D](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VitaminD_thumb.jpg)Vitamin D
Deficiency _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

