Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003180.htm    
                                Description: Bone pain or tenderness is aching or other discomfort in one or more bones.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bone pain or tenderness

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003180.htm

# Bone pain or tenderness

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Bone pain or tenderness is aching or other discomfort in one or more bones.

## Considerations

Bone pain is less common than joint pain and muscle pain. The source of bone
pain may be clear, such as from a fracture following an accident. Other
causes, such as cancer that spreads (metastasizes) to the bone, may be less
obvious.

## Causes

Bone pain can occur with injuries or conditions such as:

    * Cancer in the bones (primary malignancy)
    * Cancer that has spread to the bones (metastatic malignancy)
    * Disruption of blood supply (as in sickle cell anemia)
    * Infected bone (osteomyelitis)
    * Infection
    * Injury (trauma)
    * Leukemia
    * Loss of mineralization (osteoporosis)
    * Overuse
    * Toddler fracture (a type of stress fracture that occurs in toddlers) 

## Home Care

See your health care provider if you have bone pain and do not know why it is
occurring.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Take any bone pain or tenderness very seriously. Contact your provider if you
have any unexplained bone pain.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will ask you about your medical history and do a physical exam.

Some questions that may be asked include:

    * Where is the pain located?
    * How long have you had pain and when did it start?
    * Is the pain getting worse?
    * Do you have any other symptoms?

You may have the following tests:

    * Blood studies (such as CBC, blood differential)
    * Bone x-rays, including a bone scan
    * CT or MRI scan
    * Hormone level studies
    * Pituitary and adrenal gland function studies
    * Urine studies 

Depending on the cause of the pain, your provider may prescribe:

    * Antibiotics
    * Anti-inflammatory medicines
    * Hormones
    * Laxatives (if you develop constipation during prolonged bed rest)
    * Pain relievers

If pain is related to thinning bones, you may need treatment for osteoporosis.

## Alternative Names

Aches and pains in bones; Pain - bones

## Images

    * ![Skeleton](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1115t.jpg)Skeleton

## References

Kim C, Kaar SG. Commonly encountered fractures in sports medicine. In: Miller
MD, Thompson SR. eds. _DeLee and Drez's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine_. 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 10.

Weber TJ. Osteoporosis. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 243.

Whyte MP. Osteonecrosis, osteosclerosis/hyperostosis, and other disorders of
bone. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 248.

## Review Date 5/13/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bone Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BoneDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bone
Diseases _Read more_

![Bone
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BoneInfections_thumb.jpg)Bone
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

