Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007455.htm    
                                Description: Orthopedics, or orthopedic services, aim at the treatment of the musculoskeletal system. This includes your bones, joints, ligaments, tendons, and muscles.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Orthopedic services

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007455.htm

# Orthopedic services

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Orthopedics, or orthopedic services, aim at the treatment of the
musculoskeletal system. This includes your bones, joints, ligaments, tendons,
and muscles.

## Information

There can be many medical problems that can affect the bones, joints,
ligaments, tendons, and muscles.

Bone problems may include:

    * Bone deformities
    * Bone infections
    * Bone tumors
    * Fractures
    * Need for amputation
    * Nonunions: failure of fractures to heal
    * Malunions: fractures healing in a wrong position
    * Spinal deformities 

Joint problems may include:

    * Arthritis
    * Bursitis
    * Dislocation
    * Joint pain
    * Joint swelling or inflammation
    * Ligament tears 

Common orthopedic-related diagnoses based on body part include:

ANKLE AND FOOT

    * Bunions
    * Fasciitis
    * Foot and ankle deformities
    * Fractures
    * Hammer toe
    * Heel pain
    * Heel spurs
    * Joint pain and arthritis
    * Sprains
    * Tarsal tunnel syndrome
    * Sesamoiditis
    * Tendon or ligament injury  

HAND AND WRIST

    * Fractures
    * Joint pain
    * Arthritis
    * Tendon or ligament injury
    * Carpal tunnel syndrome
    * Ganglion cyst
    * Tendinitis
    * Tendon tears
    * Infection 

SHOULDER

    * Arthritis
    * Bursitis
    * Dislocation
    * Frozen shoulder (adhesive capsulitis)
    * Impingement syndrome
    * Loose or foreign bodies
    * Rotator cuff tear
    * Rotator cuff tendinitis
    * Separation
    * Torn labrum
    * SLAP tears
    * Fractures 

KNEE

    * Cartilage and meniscus injuries
    * Dislocation of the kneecap (patella)
    * Ligament sprains or tears (anterior cruciate, posterior cruciate, medial collateral, and lateral collateral ligament tears)
    * Meniscus injuries
    * Loose or foreign bodies
    * Osgood-Schlatter disease
    * Pain
    * Tendinitis
    * Fractures 

ELBOW

    * Arthritis
    * Bursitis
    * Dislocation or separation
    * Ligament sprains or tears
    * Loose or foreign bodies
    * Pain
    * Tennis or golfers elbow (epicondylitis or tendinitis)
    * Elbow stiffness or contractures
    * Fractures 

SPINE

    * Herniated (slipped) disk
    * Infection of the spine
    * Injury to the spine
    * Scoliosis
    * Spinal stenosis
    * Spinal tumor
    * Fractures
    * Spinal cord injuries

SERVICES AND TREATMENTS

Imaging procedures can help diagnose or even treat many orthopedic conditions.
Your health care provider may order:

    * Arthrogram (joint x-ray)
    * Bone scans
    * Computed tomography (CT) scan
    * Discography
    * Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan
    * X-rays 

Sometimes, treatment involves injections of medicine into the painful area.
This may involve:

    * Corticosteroid injections into joints, tendons, and ligaments, and around the spine
    * Hyaluronic acid injection to help relieve arthritis pain 

Surgical procedures used in the treatment of orthopedics include:

    * Amputation
    * Arthroscopic surgeries
    * Bunionectomy and hammer toe repair
    * Cartilage repair or resurfacing procedures
    * Cartilage surgery to knee
    * Fracture care
    * Arthroplasty
    * Ligament reconstructions
    * Repair of torn ligaments and tendons
    * Spine surgery, including diskectomy, foraminotomy, laminectomy, and spinal fusion 

Newer orthopedic services procedures include:

    * Minimally invasive surgery
    * Advanced external fixation
    * Use of bone graft substitutes and bone-fusing protein 

WHO IS INVOLVED

Orthopedic care often involves a team approach. Your team may include a
doctor, a non-doctor specialist as well as others. Non-doctor specialists are
professionals such as a physical therapist.

    * Orthopedic surgeons receive 5 or more extra years of training after school. They specialize in the care of disorders of the bones, muscles, tendons, and ligaments. They are trained to manage joint problems with both operative and non-operative techniques.
    * Physical medicine and rehabilitation doctors have 4 or more extra years of training after medical school. They specialize in this type of care. They are also referred to as physiatrists. They do not perform surgery, although they can give joint injections.
    * Sports medicine physicians are doctors with experience in sports medicine. They have a primary specialty in family practice, internal medicine, emergency medicine, pediatrics, or physical medicine and rehabilitation. Most have 1 to 2 years of additional training in sports medicine through subspecialty programs in sports medicine. Sports medicine is a special branch of orthopedics. This provides complete medical care to active people of all ages. 

Other doctors that may be a part of the orthopedics team include:

    * Neurologists
    * Pain specialists
    * Primary care doctors
    * Psychiatrists
    * Chiropractors 

Non-doctor health professionals that may be a part of the orthopedics team
include:

    * Athletic trainers
    * Counselors
    * Nurse practitioners
    * Physical therapists
    * Physician assistants
    * Psychologists
    * Social workers
    * Vocational workers 

## References

Ball JW, Dains JE, Flynn JA, Solomon BS, Stewart RW. Musculoskeletal system.
In: Ball JW, Dains JE, Flynn JA, Solomon BS, Stewart RW, eds. _Seidel's Guide
to Physical Examination_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Mosby; 2015:chap
21.

McGee S. Examination of the musculoskeletal system. In: McGee S, ed.
_Evidence-Based Physical Diagnosis_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2018:chap 57.

Naples RM, Ufberg JW. Management of common dislocations. In: Roberts JR,
Custalow CB, Thomsen TW, eds. _Roberts and Hedges' Clinical Procedures in
Emergency Medicine and Acute Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 49.

Ralston SH, McInnes IB. Rheumatology and bone disease. In: Walker BR, Colledge
NR, Ralston SH, Penman ID, eds. _Davidson's Principles and Practice of
Medicine_. 22nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone;
2014:chap 25.

## Review Date 3/20/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bone Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BoneDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bone
Diseases _Read more_

![Joint Disorder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/JointDisorder_thumb.jpg)Joint
Disorders _Read more_

![Muscle
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MuscleDisorders_thumb.jpg)Muscle
Disorders _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

