Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001234.htm    
                                Description: Fibrous dysplasia is a bone disease that destroys and replaces normal bone with fibrous bone tissue. One or more bones can be affected.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Fibrous dysplasia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001234.htm

# Fibrous dysplasia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Fibrous dysplasia is a bone disease that destroys and replaces normal bone
with fibrous bone tissue. One or more bones can be affected.

## Causes

Fibrous dysplasia usually occurs in childhood. Most people have symptoms by
the time they are 30 years old. The disease occurs more often in females.

Fibrous dysplasia is linked to a problem with genes (gene mutation) that
control bone-producing cells. The mutation occurs when a baby is developing in
the womb. The condition is not passed from parent to child.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

    * Bone pain
    * Bone sores (lesions)
    * Endocrine (hormone) gland problems
    * Fractures or bone deformities
    * Unusual skin color (pigmentation), which occurs with McCune-Albright syndrome

The bone lesions may stop when the child reaches puberty.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical examination. X-rays of bones
are taken.Â An MRI may be recommended.

## Treatment

There is no cure for fibrous dysplasia. Bone fractures or deformities are
treated as needed. Hormone problems will need to be treated.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outlook depends on the severity of the condition and the symptoms that
occur.

## Possible Complications

Depending on the bones that are affected, health problems that may result
include:

    * If skull bone is affected, there can be vision or hearing loss
    * If a leg bone is affected, there can be difficulty walking and joint problems such as arthritis

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if your child has symptoms of this condition, such as
repeated bone fractures and unexplained bone deformity.

Specialists in orthopedics, endocrinology, and genetics may be involved in
your child's diagnosis and care.

## Prevention

There is no known way to prevent fibrous dysplasia. Treatment aims to prevent
complications, such as recurrent bone fractures, to help make the condition
less severe.

## Alternative Names

Inflammatory fibrous hyperplasia; Idiopathic fibrous hyperplasia; McCune-
Albright syndrome

## Images

    * ![Anterior skeletal anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9065t.jpg)Anterior skeletal anatomy

## References

Czerniak B. Fibrous dysplasia and related lesions. In: Czerniak B, ed.
_Dorfman and Czerniak's Bone Tumors_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 8.

Heck RK, Toy PC. Benign bone tumors and nonneoplastic conditions simulating
bone tumors. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative
Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 25.

Merchant SN, Nadol JB. Otologic manifestations of systemic disease. In: Flint
PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head and Neck
Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 149.

Shiflett JM, Perez AJ, Parent AD. Skull lesions in children: dermoids,
langerhans cell histiocytosis, fibrous dysplasia, and lipomas. In: Winn HR,
ed. _Youmans and Winn Neurological Surgery_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 219.

## Review Date 10/18/2017

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bone Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BoneDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bone
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

