Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001591.htm    
                                Description: Craniotabes is a softening of the skull bones.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Craniotabes

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001591.htm

# Craniotabes

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Craniotabes is a softening of the skull bones.

## Causes

Craniotabes can be a normal finding in infants, particularly premature
infants. It may occur in up to one third of all newborn infants.

Craniotabes is harmless in the newborn, unless it is associated with other
problems. These can include rickets and osteogenesis imperfecta (brittle
bones).

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

    * Soft areas of the skull, especially along the suture line
    * Soft areas pop in and out
    * Bones may feel soft, flexible, and thin along the suture lines 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will press the bone along the area where the bones of
the skull come together. The bone often pops in and out, similar to pressing
on a Ping-Pong ball if the problem is present.

No testing is done unless osteogenesis imperfecta or rickets is suspected.

## Treatment

Craniotabes that are not associated with other conditions are not treated.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Complete healing is expected.

## Possible Complications

There are no complications in most cases.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

This problem is most often found when the baby is examined during a well-baby
check. Call your provider if you notice that your child has signs of
craniotabes (to rule out other problems).

## Prevention

Most of the time, craniotabes is not preventable. Exceptions are when the
condition is associated with rickets and osteogenesis imperfecta.

## Alternative Names

Congenital cranial osteoporosis

## References

Escobar O, Viswanathan P, Witchel SF. Pediatric endocrinology. In: Zitelli,
BJ, McIntire SC, Nowalk AJ, eds. _Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of Pediatric
Physical Diagnosis_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 9.

Greenbaum LA. Rickets and hypervitaminosis D. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St.
Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 51.

Graham JM, Sanchez-Lara PA. Vertex craniotabes. In: Graham JM, Sanchez-Lara
PA, eds. _Smith's Recognizable Patterns of Human Deformation_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 36.

## Review Date 3/6/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bone Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BoneDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bone
Diseases _Read more_

![Uncommon Infant and Newborn
Problems](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UncommonInfantandNewbornProblems_thumb.jpg)Uncommon
Infant and Newborn Problems _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

