Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007231.htm    
                                Description: Osteopenia is a decrease in the amount of calcium and phosphorus in the bone. This can cause bones to be weak and brittle. It increases the risk for broken bones.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Osteopenia - premature infants

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007231.htm

# Osteopenia - premature infants

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Osteopenia is a decrease in the amount of calcium and phosphorus in the bone.
This can cause bones to be weak and brittle. It increases the risk for broken
bones.

## Causes

During the last 3 months of pregnancy, large amounts of calcium and phosphorus
are transferred from the mother to the baby. This helps the baby grow.

A premature infant may not receive the proper amount of calcium and phosphorus
needed to form strong bones. While in the womb, fetal activity increases
during the last 3 months of pregnancy. This activity is thought to be
important for bone development. Most very premature infants have limited
physical activity. This may also contribute to weak bones.

Very premature babies lose much more phosphorus in their urine than do babies
that are born full-term.

A lack of vitamin D may also lead to osteopenia in infants. Vitamin D helps
the body absorb calcium from the intestines and kidneys. If babies do not
receive or make enough vitamin D, calcium and phosphorous will not be properly
absorbed. A liver problem called cholestasis may also cause problems with
vitamin D levels.

Water pills (diuretics) or steroids can also cause low calcium levels.

## Symptoms

Most premature infants born before 30 weeks have some degree of osteopenia,
but will not have any physical symptoms.

Infants with severe osteopenia may have decreased movement or swelling of an
arm or leg due to an unknown fracture.

## Exams and Tests

Osteopenia is harder to diagnose in premature infants than in adults. The most
common tests used to diagnose and monitor osteopenia of prematurity include:

    * Blood tests to check levels of calcium, phosphorus, and a protein called alkaline phosphatase
    * Ultrasound
    * X-rays 

## Treatment

Therapies that appear to improve bone strength in infants include:

    * Calcium and phosphorus supplements, added to breast milk or IV fluids 
    * Special premature formulas (when breast milk is not available)
    * Vitamin D supplementation for babies with liver problems

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Fractures will most often heal well on their own with gentle handling and
increased dietary intakes of calcium, phosphorus, and vitamin D. There may be
an increased risk for fractures throughout the first year of life for very
premature infants with this condition.

Studies have suggested that very low birth weight is a significant risk factor
for osteoporosis later in adult life. It is yet unknown whether aggressive
efforts to treat or prevent osteopenia of prematurity in the hospital after
birth can decrease this risk.

## Alternative Names

Neonatal rickets; Brittle bones - premature infants; Weak bones - premature
infants; Osteopenia of prematurity

## References

Abrams SA, Tiosano D. Disorders of calcium, phosphorus, and magnesium
metabolism in the neonate. In: Martin RJ, Fanaroff AA, Walsh MC, eds.
_Fanaroff and Martin's Neonatal-Perinatal Medicine: Diseases of the Fetus and
Infant_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 96.

Root AW, Diamond FB. Disorders of mineral homeostasis in children and
adolescents. In: Sperling MA ed. _Pediatric Endocrinology_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 18.

## Review Date 10/18/2017

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bone Density](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BoneDensity_thumb.jpg)Bone
Density _Read more_

![Bone Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BoneDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bone
Diseases _Read more_

![Premature
Babies](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PrematureBabies_thumb.jpg)Premature
Babies _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

