Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003478.htm    
                                Description: The phosphorus blood test measures the amount of phosphate in the blood.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Phosphorus blood test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003478.htm

# Phosphorus blood test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The phosphorus blood test measures the amount of phosphate in the blood.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Your health care provider may tell you to temporarily stop taking medicines
that may affect the test. These medicines include water pills (diuretics),
antacids, and laxatives.

DO NOT stop taking any medicine before talking to your provider.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or slight bruising. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

Phosphorus is a mineral the body needs to build strong bones and teeth. It is
also important for nerve signaling and muscle contraction.

This test is ordered to see how much phosphorus is in your blood. Kidney,
liver, and certain bone diseases can cause abnormal phosphorus levels.

## Normal Results

Normal values range from:

    * Adults: 2.8 to 4.5 mg/dL
    * Children: 4.0 to 7.0 mg/dL

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your provider
about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A higher than normal level (hyperphosphatemia) may be due to many different
health conditions. Common causes include:

    * Diabetic ketoacidosis (life-threatening condition that may occur in people with diabetes)
    * Hypoparathyroidism (parathyroid glands do not make enough of their hormone)
    * Kidney failure
    * Liver disease
    * Too much vitamin D
    * Too much phosphate in your diet
    * Use of certain medicines such as laxatives that have phosphate in them 

A lower than normal level (hypophosphatemia) may be due to:

    * Alcoholism
    * Hypercalcemia (too much calcium in the body)
    * Primary hyperparathyroidism (parathyroid glands make too much of their hormone)
    * Too little dietary intake of phosphate
    * Very poor nutrition
    * Too little vitamin D, resulting in bone problems such as rickets (childhood) or osteomalacia (adult) 

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another and from one side of the body to the
other. Taking blood from some people may be more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Hematoma (blood buildup under the skin)
    * Excessive bleeding
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

## Alternative Names

Phosphorus - serum; HPO4-2; PO4-3; Inorganic phosphate; Serum phosphorus

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Phosphorus (inorganic phosphate) - serum. In:
Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_.
6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:878-880.

Klemm KM, Klein MJ. Biochemical markers of bone metabolism. In: McPherson RA,
Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory
Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 15.

Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF. Electrolyte and acid-base
disorders. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson
Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 55.

Smogorzewski MJ, Stubbs JR, Yu ASL. Disorders of calcium, magnesium, and
phosphate balance. In: Skorecki K, Chertow GM, Marsden PA, Taal MW, Yu ASL,
eds. _Brenner and Rector's The Kidney_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 19.

## Review Date 11/20/2017

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bone Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BoneDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bone
Diseases _Read more_

![Crohn's
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Crohn'sDisease_thumb.jpg)Crohn's
Disease _Read more_

![Equilibrio
hidroelectrolÃ­tico](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FluidandElectrolyteBalance_thumb.jpg)Fluid
and Electrolyte Balance _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

