Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003923.htm    
                                Description: A bone lesion biopsy is the removal of a piece of bone or bone marrow for examination.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bone lesion biopsy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003923.htm

# Bone lesion biopsy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A bone lesion biopsy is the removal of a piece of bone or bone marrow for
examination.

## How the Test is Performed

The test is done in the following way:

    * An x-ray, CT or MRI scan is likely used to guide the exact placement of the biopsy instrument.
    * The health care provider applies a numbing medicine (local anesthetic) to the area.
    * A small cut is then made in the skin.
    * A special drill needle is often used. This needle is gently inserted through the cut, then pushed and twisted into the bone.
    * Once the sample is obtained, the needle is twisted out.
    * Pressure is applied to the site. Once bleeding stops, stitches are applied, and covered with a bandage.
    * The sample is sent to a lab for examination.

Bone biopsy may also be done under general anesthesia to remove a larger
sample. Then surgery to remove the bone can be done if the biopsy exam shows
that there is an abnormal growth or cancer.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Follow your provider's instructions on how to prepare. This may include not
eating and drinking for several hours before the procedure.

## How the Test will Feel

With a needle biopsy, you may feel some discomfort and pressure, even though a
local anesthetic is used. You must remain still during the procedure.

After the biopsy, the area may be sore or tender for several days.

## Why the Test is Performed

The most common reasons for bone lesion biopsy are to tell the difference
between cancerous and noncancerous bone tumors and to identify other bone or
bone marrow problems. It may be performed on people with bone pain and
tenderness, particularly if x-ray, CT scan, or other testing reveals a
problem.

## Normal Results

No abnormal bone tissue is found.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An abnormal result may be any of the following problems.

Benign (noncancerous) bone tumors, such as:

    * Bone cyst
    * Fibroma
    * Osteoblastoma
    * Osteoid osteoma

Cancerous tumors, such as:

    * Ewing sarcoma
    * Multiple myeloma
    * Osteosarcoma
    * Other types of cancer that may have spread to the bone 

Abnormal results may also be due to:

    * Osteitis fibrosa (weak and deformed bone)
    * Osteomalacia (softening of the bones)
    * Osteomyelitis (bone infection)
    * Bone marrow disorders (Leukemia or lymphoma) 

## Risks

Risks of this procedure may include:

    * Bone fracture
    * Bone infection (osteomyelitis)
    * Damage to surrounding tissue
    * Discomfort
    * Excessive bleeding
    * Infection near the biopsy area

A serious risk of this procedure is bone infection. Signs include:

    * Fever
    * Headache
    * Pain with movement
    * Redness and swelling of around the biopsy site
    * Drainage of pus from the biopsy site

If you have any of these signs, call your provider right away.

People with bone disorders who also have blood clotting disorders may have an
increased risk of bleeding.

## Alternative Names

Bone biopsy; Biopsy - bone

## Images

    * ![Bone biopsy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9754t.jpg)Bone biopsy

## References

Chen YH, Carrino JA, Fayad LM. Image-guided percutaneous biopsy of
musculoskeletal lesions. In: Mauro MA, Murphy KPJ, Thomson KR, Venbrux AC,
Morgan RA, eds. _Image-Guided Interventions_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 157.

Reisinger C, Mallinson PI, Chou H, Munk PL, Ouellette HA. Interventional
radiologic techniques in management of bone tumors. In: Heymann D, ed. _Bone
Cancer_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2015:chap 44.

## Review Date 8/15/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Biopsy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Biopsy_thumb.jpg)Biopsy _Read more_

![Bone Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BoneCancer_thumb.jpg)Bone Cancer
_Read more_

![Bone Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BoneDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bone
Diseases _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

