Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003497.htm    
                                Description: Alkaline phosphatase (ALP) is an enzyme found in many body tissues such as liver, bile ducts, bone, and intestine. There are several different forms of ALP called isoenzymes. The structure of the enzyme    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

ALP isoenzyme test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003497.htm

# ALP isoenzyme test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Alkaline phosphatase (ALP) is an enzyme found in many body tissues such as
liver, bile ducts, bone, and intestine. There are several different forms of
ALP called isoenzymes. The structure of the enzyme depends on where in the
body it is produced. This test is most often used to test ALP made in the
tissues of the liver and bones.

The ALP isoenzyme test is a lab test that measures the amounts of different
types of ALP in the blood.

The ALP test is a related test.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed. Most of the time blood is drawn from a vein located
on the inside of the elbow or the back of the hand.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You should not eat or drink anything for 10 to 12 hours before the test,
unless your health care provider tells you to do so.

Many medicines can interfere with blood test results.

    * Your provider will tell you if you need to stop taking any medicines before you have this test.
    * DO NOT stop or change your medicines without talking to your provider first.

## How the Test will Feel

You may feel slight pain or a sting when the needle is inserted. You may also
feel some throbbing at the site after the blood is drawn.

## Why the Test is Performed

When the ALP test result is high, you may need to have the ALP isoenzyme test.
This test will help determine what part of the body is causing higher ALP
levels.

This test may be used to diagnose or monitor:

    * Bone disease
    * Liver, gallbladder, or bile duct disease
    * Pain in the abdomen
    * Parathyroid gland disease
    * Vitamin D deficiency

It may also be done to check liver function and to see how medicines you take
may affect your liver.

## Normal Results

The normal value for total ALP is 44 to 147 international units per liter
(IU/L) or 0.73 to 2.45 microkatal per liter (Âµkat/L). ALP isoenzyme testing
may have differing normal values.

Adults have lower levels of ALP than children. Bones that are still growing
produce higher levels of ALP. During some growth spurts, levels can be as high
as 500 IU/L or 835 ÂµKat/L. For this reason, the test is usually not done in
children, and abnormal results refer to adults.

The isoenzyme test results can reveal whether the increase is in "bone" ALP or
"liver" ALP.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk to
your provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

The example above shows the common measurement rangeÂ for results for these
tests. Some laboratories use different measurements or may test different
specimens.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Higher-than-normal ALP levels:

    * Biliary obstruction
    * Bone disease
    * Eating a fatty meal if you have blood type O or B
    * Healing fracture
    * Hepatitis
    * Hyperparathyroidism
    * Leukemia
    * Liver disease
    * Lymphoma
    * Osteoblastic bone tumors
    * Osteomalacia
    * Paget disease
    * Rickets
    * Sarcoidosis 

Lower-than-normal levels of ALP:

    * Hypophosphatasia
    * Malnutrition
    * Protein deficiency
    * Wilson disease

Levels that are only slightly higher than normal may not be a problem unless
there are other signs of a disease or medical problem.

## Alternative Names

Alkaline phosphatase isoenzyme test

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Berk PD, Korenblat KM. Approach to the patient with jaundice or abnormal liver
tests. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 147.

Fogel EL, Sherman S. Diseases of the gall bladder and bile ducts.Â In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 155.

Martin P. Approach to the patient with liver disease. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 146.

Weinstein RS. Osteomalacia and rickets. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 244.

## Review Date 4/29/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bile
Duct](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BileDuctCancerandDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bile
Duct Diseases _Read more_

![Bone Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BoneDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bone
Diseases _Read more_

![Jaundice](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Jaundice_thumb.jpg)Jaundice _Read
more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

