Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003833.htm    
                                Description: A bone scan is an imaging test used to diagnose bone diseases and find out how severe they are.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bone scan

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003833.htm

# Bone scan

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A bone scan is an imaging test used to diagnose bone diseases and find out how
severe they are.

## How the Test is Performed

A bone scan involves injecting a very small amount of radioactive material
(radiotracer) into a vein. The substance travels through your blood to the
bones and organs. As it wears off, it gives off a bit of radiation. This
radiation is detected by a camera that slowly scans your body. The camera
takes pictures of how much radiotracer collects in the bones.

If a bone scan is done to see if you have a bone infection, images may be
taken shortly after the radioactive material is injected and again 3 to 4
hours later, when it has collected in the bones. This process is called a
3-phase bone scan.

To evaluate metastatic bone disease, images are taken only after the 3- to
4-hour delay.

The scanning part of the test will last about 1 hour. The scanner's camera may
move above and around you. You may need to change positions.

You will probably be asked to drink extra water after you receive the
radiotracer to keep the material from collecting in your bladder.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You must remove jewelry and other metal objects. You may be asked to wear a
hospital gown.

Tell your health care provider if you are or may be pregnant.

DO NOT take any medicine with bismuth in it, such as Pepto-Bismol, for 4 days
before the test.

Follow any other instructions you are given.

## How the Test will Feel

There is a small amount of pain when the needle is inserted. During the scan,
there is no pain. You must remain still during the scan. The technologist will
tell you when to change positions.

You may experience some discomfort due to lying still for a long period.

## Why the Test is Performed

A bone scan is used to:

    * Diagnose a bone tumor or cancer.
    * Determine if a cancer that began elsewhere in your body has spread to the bones. Common cancers that spread to the bones include breast, lung, prostate, thyroid, and kidney.
    * Diagnose a fracture, when it cannot be seen on a regular x-ray (most commonly hip fractures, stress fractures in the feet or legs, or spine fractures).
    * Diagnose a bone infection (osteomyelitis).
    * Diagnose or determine the cause of bone pain, when no other cause has been identified.
    * Evaluate metabolic disorders, such as osteomalacia, primary hyperparathyroidism, osteoporosis, complex regional pain syndrome, and Paget disease.

## Normal Results

Test results are considered normal if the radiotracer is present evenly
throughout all the bones.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An abnormal scan will show "hot spots" and/or "cold spots" as compared to
surrounding bone. Hot spots are areas where there is an increased collection
of the radioactive material. Cold spots are areas that have taken up less of
the radioactive material.

Bone scan findings must be compared with other imaging studies, in addition to
clinical information. Your provider will discuss any abnormal findings with
you.

## Risks

If you are pregnant or nursing, the test may be postponed to prevent exposing
the baby to radiation. If you must have the test while breastfeeding, you
should pump and throw away the breast milk for the next 2 days.

The amount of radiation injected into your vein is very small. All radiation
is gone from the body within 2 to 3 days. The radiotracer that is used exposes
you to a very small amount of radiation. The risk is probably no greater than
with routine x-rays.

Risks related to the bone radiotracer are rare, but may include:

    * Anaphylaxis (severe allergic response)
    * Rash
    * Swelling

There is a slight risk of infection or bleeding when the needle is inserted
into a vein.

## Alternative Names

Scintigraphy - bone

## Images

    * ![Nuclear scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19100t.jpg)Nuclear scan

## References

Bearcroft PWP, Hopper MA. Imaging techniques and fundamental observations for
the musculoskeletal system. In: Adam A, Dixon AK, Gillard JH, Schaefer-Prokop
CM, eds. _Grainger & Allison's Diagnostic Radiology: A Textbook of Medical
Imaging_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone; 2015:chap
45.

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Bone scan (bone scintigraphy) - diagnostic. In:
Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_.
6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:246-247.

Ribbens C, Namur G. Bone scintigraphy and positron emission tomography. In:
Hochberg MC, Gravallese EM, Silman AJ, Smolen JS, Weinblatt ME, Weisman MH,
eds. _Rheumatology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 49.

## Review Date 2/24/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Internal
review and update on 04/15/2019 by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bone Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BoneCancer_thumb.jpg)Bone Cancer
_Read more_

![Bone Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BoneDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bone
Diseases _Read more_

![Fractures](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Fracture_thumb.jpg)Fractures _Read
more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

