Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003170.htm    
                                Description: Skeletal limb abnormalities refers to a variety of bone structure problems in the arms or legs (limbs).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Skeletal limb abnormalities

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003170.htm

# Skeletal limb abnormalities

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Skeletal limb abnormalities refers to a variety of bone structure problems in
the arms or legs (limbs).

## Considerations

The term skeletal limb abnormalities is most often used to describe defects in
the legs or arms that are due to a problem with genes or chromosomes, or that
occur due to an event that happens during pregnancy.

The abnormalities are often present at birth.

Limb abnormalities can develop after birth if a person has rickets or other
diseases that affect bone structure.

## Causes

Skeletal limb abnormalities may be due to any of the following:

    * Cancer
    * Genetic diseases and chromosomal abnormalities, including Marfan syndrome, Down syndrome, Apert syndrome, and Basal cell nevus syndrome
    * Improper position in the womb
    * Infections during pregnancy
    * Injury during birth
    * Malnutrition
    * Metabolism problems
    * Pregnancy problems, including limb amputation from amniotic band disruption sequence
    * Use of certain medicines during pregnancy including thalidomide, which causes the upper part of the arms or legs to be missing, and aminopterin, which leads to shortness of the forearm 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have any concerns about limb length or
appearance.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

An infant with limb abnormalities generally has other symptoms and signs that,
when taken together, define a specific syndrome or condition or give a clue as
to the cause of the abnormality. Diagnosis is based on a family history,
medical history, and thorough physical evaluation.

Medical history questions may include:

    * Does anyone in your family have skeletal abnormalities?
    * Were there any problems during pregnancy?
    * What drugs or medicines were taken during the pregnancy?
    * What other symptoms or abnormalities are present? 

Other tests such as chromosome studies, enzyme assays, x-rays, and metabolic
studies may be done.

## References

Deeney VF, Arnold J. Orthopedics. In: Zitelli BJ, McIntire SC, Norwalk AJ,
eds. _Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of Pediatric Physical Diagnosis_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2018:chap 22.

Herring JA. Skeletal dysplasias. In: Herring JA, ed. _Tachdjian's Pediatric
Orthopaedics_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 40.

Moore KL, Persaud TVN, Torchia MG. Skeletal system. In: Moore KL, Persaud TVN,
Torchia MG, eds. _The Developing Human: Clinically Oriented Embryology_. 10th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 14.

## Review Date 10/11/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Arm Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ArmInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Arm
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![Bone Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BoneDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bone
Diseases _Read more_

![Leg Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LegInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Leg
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

