Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003381.htm    
                                Description: A skeletal x-ray is an imaging test used to look at the bones. It is used to detect fractures, tumors, or conditions that cause wearing away (degeneration) of the bone.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

X-ray - skeleton

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003381.htm

# X-ray - skeleton

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A skeletal x-ray is an imaging test used to look at the bones. It is used to
detect fractures, tumors, or conditions that cause wearing away (degeneration)
of the bone.

## How the Test is Performed

The test is done in a hospital radiology department or in the health care
provider's office by an x-ray technologist.

You will lie on a table or stand in front of the x-ray machine, depending on
the bone that is injured. You may be asked to change position so that
different x-ray views can be taken.

The x-ray particles pass through the body. A computer or special film records
the images.

Structures that are dense (such as bone) will block most of the x-ray
particles. These areas will appear white. Metal and contrast media (special
dye used to highlight areas of the body) will also appear white. Structures
containing air will be black. Muscle, fat, and fluid will appear as shades of
gray.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Tell the provider if you are pregnant. You must remove all jewelry before the
x-ray.

## How the Test will Feel

The x-rays are painless. Changing positions and moving the injured area for
different x-ray views may be uncomfortable. If the whole skeleton is being
imaged, the test most often takes 1 hour or more.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is used to look for:

    * Fractures or broken bone
    * Cancer that has spread to other areas of the body
    * Osteomyelitis (inflammation of the bone caused by an infection)
    * Bone damage due to trauma (such as an auto accident) or degenerative conditions
    * Abnormalities in the soft tissue around the bone

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal findings include:

    * Fractures
    * Bone tumors
    * Degenerative bone conditions
    * Osteomyelitis

## Risks

There is low radiation exposure. X-rays machines are set to provide the
smallest amount of radiation exposure needed to produce the image. Most
experts feel that the risk is low compared with the benefits.

Children and the fetuses of pregnant women are more sensitive to the risks of
the x-ray. A protective shield may be worn over areas not being scanned.

## Alternative Names

Skeletal survey

## Images

    * ![X-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1057t.jpg)X-ray
    * ![Skeleton](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1115t.jpg)Skeleton
    * ![Skeletal spine](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1116t.jpg)Skeletal spine
    * ![Hand X-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8987t.jpg)Hand X-ray
    * ![Skeleton \(posterior view\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9771t.jpg)Skeleton (posterior view)
    * ![The skeleton \(lateral view\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9506t.jpg)The skeleton (lateral view)

## References

Bearcroft PWP, Hopper MA. Imaging techniques and fundamental observations for
the musculoskeletal system. In: Adam A, Dixon AK, Gillard JH, Schaefer-Prokop
CM, eds. _Grainger & Allison's Diagnostic Radiology: A Textbook of Medical
Imaging_. 6th ed. New York, NY: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone; 2015:chap 45.

Contreras F, Perez J, Jose J. Imaging overview. In: Miller MD, Thompson SR.
eds. _DeLee and Drez's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2020:chap 7.

## Review Date 5/13/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bone Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BoneDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bone
Diseases _Read more_

![Fractures](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Fracture_thumb.jpg)Fractures _Read
more_

![X-Rays](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Xray_thumb.jpg)X-Rays _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

