Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002375.htm    
                                Description: Hyperbaric oxygen therapy uses a special pressure chamber to increase the amount of oxygen in the blood.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hyperbaric oxygen therapy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002375.htm

# Hyperbaric oxygen therapy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hyperbaric oxygen therapy uses a special pressure chamber to increase the
amount of oxygen in the blood.

## Information

Some hospitals have a hyperbaric chamber. Smaller units may be available in
outpatient centers.

The air pressure inside a hyperbaric oxygen chamber is about two and a half
times higher than the normal pressure in the atmosphere. This helps your blood
carry more oxygen to organs and tissues in your body.

The other benefits of increased pressure of oxygen in the tissues may include:

    * More and improved oxygen supply
    * Reduction in swelling and edema
    * Stopping infection 

Hyperbaric therapy can help wounds, particularly infected wounds, heal more
quickly. The therapy may be used to treat:

    * Air or gas embolism
    * Bone infections (osteomyelitis) that have not improved with other treatments
    * Burns
    * Crush injuries
    * Frost bites
    * Carbon monoxide poisoning
    * Certain types of brain or sinus infections
    * Decompression sickness (for example, a diving injury)
    * Gas gangrene
    * Necrotizing soft tissue infections
    * Radiation injury (for example, damage from radiation therapy for cancer)
    * Skin grafts
    * Wounds that have not healed with other treatments (for example, it may be used to treat a foot ulcer in someone with diabetes or very bad circulation) 

This treatment may also be used to provide enough oxygen to the lung during a
procedure called whole lung lavage, which is used to clean an entire lung in
people with certain medical conditions.

Treatment for long-term (chronic) conditions may be repeated over days or
weeks. A treatment session for more acute conditions such as decompression
sickness may last longer, but may not need to be repeated.

You might feel pressure in your ears while you are in the hyperbaric chamber.
Your ears may pop when you get out of the chamber.

## References

Bove AA, Neuman TS. Diving medicine. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et
al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 78.

Lumb AB. Oxygen toxicity and hyperoxia. In: Lumb AB, ed. _Nunn's Applied
Respiratory Physiology_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 24.

Marston WA. Wound care. In: Sidawy AN, Perler BA, eds. _Rutherford's Vascular
Surgery and Endovascular Therapy_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 115.

## Review Date 7/20/2018

Updated by: Allen J. Blaivas, DO, Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care, and
Sleep Medicine, VA New Jersey Health Care System, Clinical Assistant
Professor, Rutgers New Jersey Medical School, East Orange, NJ. Review provided
by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bone Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BoneDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bone
Diseases _Read more_

![Burns](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Burns_thumb.jpg)Burns _Read more_

![Carbon Monoxide
Poisoning](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CarbonMonoxidePoisoning_thumb.jpg)Carbon
Monoxide Poisoning _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

