Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001217.htm    
                                Description: McCune-Albright syndrome is a genetic disease that affects the bones and color (pigmentation) of the skin.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

McCune-Albright syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001217.htm

# McCune-Albright syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

McCune-Albright syndrome is a genetic disease that affects the bones and color
(pigmentation) of the skin.

## Causes

McCune-Albright syndrome is caused by mutations in the GNASÂ gene. A small
number, but not all, of the person's cells contain this faulty gene
(mosaicism).

This disease is not inherited.

## Symptoms

The main symptom of McCune-Albright syndrome is early puberty in girls.
Menstrual periods may begin in early childhood, long before the breasts or
pubic hair develop (which normally occur first). The average age that symptoms
appear is 3 years old. However, puberty and menstrual bleeding have occurred
as early as 4 to 6 months in girls.

Early sexual development may also occur in boys, but not as often as in girls.

Other symptoms include:

    * Bone fractures
    * Deformities of the bones in the face
    * Gigantism
    * Irregular, large patchy cafe-au-lait spots

## Exams and Tests

A physical examination may show signs of:

    * Abnormal bone growth in the skull
    * Abnormal heart rhythms (arrhythmias)
    * Acromegaly
    * Gigantism
    * Large cafe-au-lait spots on the skin
    * Liver disease, jaundice, fatty liver
    * Scar-like tissue in the bone (fibrous dysplasia) 

Tests may show:

    * Adrenal abnormalities
    * High level of parathyroid hormone (hyperparathyroidism)
    * High level of thyroid hormone (hyperthyroidism)Â 
    * Adrenal hormone abnormalities
    * Low level of phosphorous in the blood (hypophosphatemia)
    * Ovarian cysts
    * Pituitary or thyroid tumors
    * Abnormal blood prolactin level
    * Abnormal growth hormone level 

Other tests that may be done include:

    * MRI of the head
    * X-rays of the bones 

Genetic testing may be done to confirm the diagnosis.

## Treatment

There is no specific treatment for McCune-Albright syndrome. Drugs that block
estrogen production, such as testolactone, have been tried with some success.

Adrenal abnormalities (such as Cushing syndrome) may be treated with surgery
to remove the adrenal glands. Gigantism and pituitary adenoma will need to be
treated with medicines that block hormone production, or with surgery.

Bone abnormalities (fibrous dysplasia) are sometimes removed with surgery.

Limit the number of x-rays taken of affected areas of the body.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Lifespan is relatively normal.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Blindness
    * Cosmetic problems from bone abnormalities
    * Deafness
    * Osteitis fibrosa cystica
    * Premature puberty
    * Repeated broken bones
    * Tumors of the bone (rare)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if your child starts puberty early, or has
other symptoms of McCune-Albright syndrome. Genetic counseling, and possibly
genetic testing, may be suggested if the disease is detected.

## Alternative Names

Polyostotic fibrous dysplasia

## Images

    * ![Anterior skeletal anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9065t.jpg)Anterior skeletal anatomy
    * ![Neurofibromatosis - giant cafe-au-lait spot](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2447t.jpg)Neurofibromatosis - giant cafe-au-lait spot

## References

Garibaldi LR, Chemaitilly W. Disorders of pubertal development. In: Kliegman
RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_.
20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 562.

Styne DM, Grumbach MM. Physiology and disorders of puberty. In: Melmed S,
Polonsky KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of
Endocrinology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 25.

## Review Date 7/26/2018

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Bone Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BoneDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bone
Diseases _Read more_

![Endocrine
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EndocrineDiseases_thumb.jpg)Endocrine
Diseases _Read more_

![Growth
Disorder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GrowthDisorders_thumb.jpg)Growth
Disorders _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

