Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001584.htm    
                                Description: Blount disease is a growth disorder of the shin bone (tibia) in which the lower leg turns inward, making it look like a bowleg.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Blount disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001584.htm

# Blount disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Blount disease is a growth disorder of the shin bone (tibia) in which the
lower leg turns inward, making it look like a bowleg.

## Causes

Blount disease occurs in young children and adolescents. The cause is unknown.
It is thought to be due to the effects of weight on the growth plate. The
inner part of the shin bone, just below the knee, fails to develop normally.

Unlike bowlegs, which tend to straighten as the child develops, Blount disease
slowly gets worse. It can cause severe bowing of one or both legs.

This condition is more common among African American children. It is also
associated with obesity and early walking.

## Symptoms

One or both of the lower legs turn inward. This is called "bowing." It may:

    * Look the same on both legs
    * Occur just below the knee
    * Rapidly get worse 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will examine you. This will show that the lower legs
turn inward. An x-ray of the knee and the lower leg confirms the diagnosis.

## Treatment

Braces are used to treat children who develop severe bowing before the age of
3.

Surgery is most often needed if bracesÂ do notÂ work, or if the problem is not
diagnosed until the child is older. Surgery may involve cutting the shin bone
to place it in the proper position. Sometimes, the bone will be lengthened as
well.

Other times, surgery is done to restrict the growth of the outer half of the
shin bone. This allows the child's natural growth to reverse the bowing
process. This is a much smaller surgery. It works best in children with less
severe symptoms who still have quite a bit of growing to do.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

If the leg can be placed into the proper position, the outlook is good. The
leg should work properly and look normal.

## Possible Complications

Failure to treat Blount disease may lead to progressive deformity. The
condition may lead to differences in leg lengths, which can result in
disability if not treated.

Blount disease may come back after surgery, especially in younger children.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your child's provider if your child's leg or legs appear to be bowing.
Also call if your child has bowed legs that appear to be getting worse.

## Prevention

Weight loss for overweight children may be helpful.

## Alternative Names

Blount's disease; Tibia vara

## Images

    * ![Anterior skeletal anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9065t.jpg)Anterior skeletal anatomy

## References

Canale ST. Osteochondrosis or epiphysitis and other miscellaneous affections.
In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_.
13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 32.

Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF. Torsional and angular
deformities. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson
Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 675.

## Review Date 10/11/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bone Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BoneDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bone
Diseases _Read more_

![Leg Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LegInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Leg
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

