Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000487.htm    
                                Description: In people who have sensitive airways, allergy and asthma symptoms can be triggered by breathing in substances called allergens, or triggers. It is important to know your triggers because avoiding them    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Allergies, asthma, and dust

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000487.htm

# Allergies, asthma, and dust

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

In people who have sensitive airways, allergy and asthma symptoms can be
triggered by breathing in substances called allergens, or triggers. It is
important to know your triggers because avoiding them is your first step
toward feeling better. Dust is a common trigger.

## Dust and Dust Mites

When your asthma or allergies become worse due to dust, you are said to have a
dust allergy.

    * Very tiny insects called dust mites are the main cause of dust allergies. Dust mites can only be seen under a microscope. Most dust mites in your home are found in bedding, mattresses, and box springs.
    * House dust may also contain tiny particles of pollen, mold, fibers from clothing and fabrics, and detergents. All of these can also trigger allergies and asthma. 

## Choose the Right Home Furnishings

You can do many things to limit your or your child's exposure to dust and dust
mites.

Replace blinds that have slats and cloth draperies with pull-down shades. They
will not collect as much dust.

Dust particles collect in fabrics and carpets.

    * If you can, get rid of fabric or upholstered furniture. Wood, leather, and vinyl are better.
    * Avoid sleeping or lying on cushions and furniture that are covered in cloth.
    * Replace wall-to-wall carpet with wood or other hard flooring. 

Since mattresses, box springs, and pillows are hard to avoid:

    * Wrap them with mite-proof covers.
    * Wash bedding and pillows once a week in hot water (130Â°F [54.4Â°C] to 140Â°F [60Â°C]). 

## Other Tips

Keep indoor air dry. Dust mites thrive in moist air. Try to keep the moisture
level (humidity) lower than 30% to 50%, if possible. A dehumidifier will help
control humidity.

Central heating and air-conditioning systems may help control dust.

    * The system should include special filters to capture dust and animal dander.
    * Change furnace filters frequently.
    * Use high efficiency particulate air (HEPA) filters. 

When cleaning:

    * Wipe away dust with a damp cloth and vacuum once a week. Use a vacuum cleaner with a HEPA filter to help control the dust that vacuuming stirs up.
    * Use furniture polish to help reduce dust and other allergens.
    * Wear a mask when you clean the house.
    * You and your child should leave the house when others are cleaning, if possible. 

Keep stuffed toys off beds, and wash them weekly.

Keep closets clean and closet doors closed.

## Alternative Names

Reactive airway disease - dust; Bronchial asthma - dust; Triggers - dust

## Images

    * ![Dust mite-proof pillow cover](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19337t.jpg)Dust mite-proof pillow cover
    * ![HEPA air filter](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19338t.jpg)HEPA air filter

## References

American Academy of Allergy Asthma & Immunology website. Indoor allergens.
www.aaaai.org/conditions-and-treatments/library/allergy-library/indoor-
allergens. Accessed June 18, 2018.

Cipriani F, Calamelli E, Ricci G. Allergen avoidance in allergic asthma.
_Front Pediatr_. 2017;5:103. PMCID: PMC5423906
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5423906.

Platts-Mills TAE. Indoor allergens. In: Adkinson NF Jr, Bochner BS, Burks AW,
et al, eds. _Middleton's Allergy Principles and Practice_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 28.

## Review Date 5/20/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Allergy
    * Asthma

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

