Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000488.htm    
                                Description: In people who have sensitive airways, allergy and asthma symptoms can be triggered by breathing in substances called allergens, or triggers. It is important to know your triggers because avoiding them    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Allergies, asthma, and molds

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000488.htm

# Allergies, asthma, and molds

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

In people who have sensitive airways, allergy and asthma symptoms can be
triggered by breathing in substances called allergens, or triggers. It is
important to know your triggers because avoiding them is your first step
toward feeling better. Mold is a common trigger.

## Molds

When your asthma or allergies become worse due to mold, you are said to have a
mold allergy.

There are many types of mold. They all need water or moisture to grow.

    * Molds send out tiny spores that you cannot see with the naked eye. These spores float through the air, outdoors and indoors.
    * Mold can begin growing indoors when the spores land on wet surfaces. Mold commonly grows in basements, bathrooms, and laundry rooms. 

## Controlling Mold Indoors

Fabrics, carpets, stuffed animals, books, and wallpaper can contain mold
spores if they are in damp places. Outdoors, mold lives in the soil, on
compost, and on plants that are damp. Keeping your house and yard drier will
help control mold growth.

Central heating and air-conditioning systems can help control mold.

    * Change furnace and air conditioner filters often.
    * Use high efficiency particulate air (HEPA) filters to best remove mold from the air. 

In the bathroom:

    * Use an exhaust fan when you shower or take baths.
    * Use a squeegee to wipe water off shower and tub walls after you bathe.
    * DO NOT leave damp clothes or towels in a basket or hamper.
    * Clean or replace shower curtains when you see mold on them. 

In the basement:

    * Check your basement for moisture and mold.
    * Use a dehumidifier to keep the air drier. Keeping indoor moisture levels (humidity) at less than 30% to 50% will keep mold spores down.
    * Empty dehumidifiers daily and clean them often with a vinegar solution. 

In the rest of the house:

    * Fix leaky faucets and pipes.
    * Keep all sinks and tubs dry and clean.
    * Empty and wash the refrigerator tray that collects water from the freezer defroster often.
    * Frequently clean any surfaces where mold grows in your house.
    * DO NOT use vaporizers for an extended time to manage symptoms during asthma attacks. 

Outdoors:

    * Get rid of water that collects around the outside of your house.
    * Stay away from barns, hay, and wood piles.
    * DO NOT rake leaves or mow grass. 

## Alternative Names

Reactive airway - mold; Bronchial asthma - mold; Triggers - mold; Allergic
rhinitis - pollen

## References

American Academy of Allergy Asthma & Immunology website. Indoor allergens.
www.aaaai.org/conditions-and-treatments/library/allergy-library/indoor-
allergens. Accessed June 18, 2018.

Cipriani F, Calamelli E, Ricci G. Allergen avoidance in allergic asthma.
_Front Pediatr_. 2017;5:103. PMCID: PMC5423906
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5423906.

Platts-Mills TAE. Indoor allergens. In: Adkinson NF Jr, Bochner BS, Burks AW,
et al, eds. _Middleton's Allergy Principles and Practice_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 28.

## Review Date 5/20/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Allergy
    * Asthma
    * Molds

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

