Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000036.htm    
                                Description: Sometimes exercise triggers asthma symptoms. This is called exercise-induced asthma (EIA).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Exercise-induced asthma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000036.htm

# Exercise-induced asthma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Sometimes exercise triggers asthma symptoms. This is called exercise-induced
asthma (EIA).

The symptoms of EIA are coughing, wheezing, a feeling of tightness in your
chest, or shortness of breath. Most times, these symptoms start soon after you
stop exercising. Some people may have symptoms after they start exercising.

## Be Careful Where and When you Exercise

Having asthma symptoms when you exercise does not mean you cannot or should
not exercise. But be aware of your EIA triggers.

Cold or dry air may trigger your asthma symptoms. If you do exercise in cold
or dry air:

    * Breathe through your nose.
    * Wear a scarf or mask over your mouth.

DO NOT exercise when the air is polluted. DO NOT exercise near fields or lawns
that have just been mowed.

Warm up before you exercise, and cool down afterward:

    * To warm up, walk or do your exercise activity slowly before you speed up.
    * The longer you warm up, the better.
    * To cool down, walk or do your exercise activity slowly for several minutes.

Some kinds of exercise may be less likely to trigger asthma symptoms than
others.

    * Swimming is a good sport for people with EIA. The warm, moist air helps keep asthma symptoms away.
    * Football, baseball, and other sports with periods when you do not move fast are less likely to trigger your asthma symptoms.

Activities that keep you moving fast all the time are more likely to trigger
asthma symptoms, such as running, basketball, or soccer.

## Use Your Asthma Medicine Before you Exercise

Take your short-acting, or quick-relief, inhaled medicines before you
exercise.

    * Take them 10 to 15 minutes before exercise.
    * They can help for up to 4 hours. 

Long-acting, inhaled medicines may also help.

    * Use them at least 30 minutes before exercise.
    * They can help for up to 12 hours. Children can take this medicine before school, and it will help for the whole day.
    * Be aware that using this kind of medicine every day before exercise will make it less effective over time. 

Follow your doctor's advice on which medicines to use and when.

## Alternative Names

Wheezing - exercise-induced; Reactive airway disease - exercise

## Images

    * ![Exercise-induced asthma](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19390t.jpg)Exercise-induced asthma

## References

Lugogo N, Que LG, Gilstrap DL, Kraft M. Asthma: clinical diagnosis and
management. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and
Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 42.

Weiler JM, Brannan JD, Randolph CC, et al. Exercise-induced
bronchoconstriction update - 2016. _J Allergy Clin Immunol_.
2016;138(5):1292-1295.e36. PMID: 27665489
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27665489.

## Read More

    * Asthma
    * Asthma and allergy resources
    * Asthma in children
    * Wheezing

## Patient Instructions

    * Asthma and school
    * Asthma - child - discharge
    * Asthma - control drugs
    * Asthma in adults - what to ask the doctor
    * Asthma in children - what to ask your doctor
    * Asthma - quick-relief drugs 
    * Exercising and asthma at school 
    * How to use a nebulizer
    * How to use an inhaler - no spacer
    * How to use an inhaler - with spacer
    * How to use your peak flow meter
    * Make peak flow a habit
    * Signs of an asthma attack
    * Stay away from asthma triggers

## Review Date 2/18/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Asthma
    * Asthma in Children

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

