Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000064.htm    
                                Description: It is important to know what things make your asthma worse. These are called asthma &quot;triggers.&quot; Avoiding them is your first step toward feeling better.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Stay away from asthma triggers

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000064.htm

# Stay away from asthma triggers

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

It is important to know what things make your asthma worse. These are called
asthma "triggers." Avoiding them is your first step toward feeling better.

Our homes can be filled with asthma triggers, found within:

    * The air we breathe
    * Furniture and carpets
    * Our pets 

## Stay Away From Smoking

If you smoke, ask your health care provider for help quitting. No one should
smoke in your house. This includes you and your visitors.

Smokers should smoke outside and wear a coat. The coat will keep smoke
particles from sticking to their clothes. They should leave the coat outside
or away from your child.

Ask people who work at your child's day care, preschool, school, and anyone
else who takes care of your child, if they smoke. If they do, make sure they
do not smoke near your child.

Stay away from restaurants and bars that allow smoking. Or, ask for a table as
far away from smokers as possible.

## Pollen

When pollen levels are high:

    * Stay indoors and keep doors and windows closed. Use an air conditioner if you have one.
    * Save outside activities for late afternoon or after a heavy rain.
    * Wear a facemask while you are doing outdoor activities.
    * DO NOT dry clothes outdoors. Pollen will stick to them. Have someone who does not have asthma cut the grass, or wear a facemask if you must do it. 

## Dust Mites

You can take several steps to limit exposure to dust mites.

    * Wrap mattresses, box springs, and pillows in mite-proof covers.
    * Wash bedding and pillows once a week in hot water (130Â°F to 140Â°F [54Â°C to 60Â°C]).
    * If you can, get rid of upholstered furniture. Use wooden, leather, or vinyl furniture instead.
    * Keep indoor air dry. Try to keep the humidity level lower than 50%.
    * Wipe away dust with a damp cloth and vacuum once a week. Use a vacuum cleaner with a HEPA (high-efficiency particulate arrestor) filter.
    * Replace wall-to-wall carpet with wood or other hard flooring.
    * Keep stuffed toys off the beds, and wash them weekly.
    * Replace slatted blinds and cloth draperies with pull-down shades. They will not collect as much dust.
    * Keep closets clean and closet doors closed. 

## Mold Spores

Keeping indoor humidity at less than 50% will keep mold spores down. To do so:

    * Keep sinks and tubs dry and clean.
    * Fix leaky pipes.
    * Empty and wash refrigerator trays that collect water from the freezer.
    * Defrost your refrigerator often.
    * Use an exhaust fan in the bathroom when you are showering.
    * DO NOT let damp clothes sit in a basket or hamper.
    * Clean or replace shower curtains when you see mold on them.
    * Check your basement for moisture and mold.
    * Use a dehumidifier to keep the air dry. 

## Pets can Make Asthma Worse

Keep pets with fur or feathers outside, if possible. If pets stay inside, keep
them out of bedrooms and off upholstered furniture and carpets.

Wash pets once a week if possible.

If you have a central air conditioning system, use a HEPA filter to remove pet
allergens from indoor air. Use a vacuum cleaner with HEPA filters.

Wash your hands and change your clothes after playing with your pet.

## Roaches and Rodents

Keep kitchen counters clean and free of food crumbs. DO NOT leave dirty dishes
in the sink. Keep food in closed containers.

DO NOT let trash pile up inside. This includes bags, newspapers, and cardboard
boxes.

Use roach traps. Wear a dust mask and gloves if you touch or are near rodents.

## Other Triggers to Watch Out for

DO NOT use wood-burning fireplaces. If you need to burn wood, use an airtight
wood-burning stove.

DO NOT use perfumes or scented cleaning sprays. Use trigger sprays instead of
aerosols.

Discuss any other possible triggers with your provider and how to avoid them.

## Alternative Names

Asthma triggers - stay away from; Asthma triggers - avoiding; Reactive airway
disease - triggers; Bronchial asthma - triggers

## Images

    * ![Asthma triggers](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22934t.jpg)Asthma triggers
    * ![Dust mite-proof pillow cover](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19337t.jpg)Dust mite-proof pillow cover
    * ![HEPA air filter](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19338t.jpg)HEPA air filter

## References

Bergstrom J, Kurth M, Hieman BE, et al. Institute for Clinical Systems
Improvement website. Health Care Guideline: Diagnosis and Management of
Asthma. 11th ed. www.icsi.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/01/Asthma.pdf. Updated
December 2016. Accessed February 28, 2018.

Custovic A, Tovery E. Allergen control for prevention and management of
allergic diseases. In: Adkinson NF Jr, Bochner BS, Burks AW, et al, eds.
_Middleton's Allergy Principles and Practice_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 86.

Durrani SR, Busse WW. Management of asthma in adolescents and adults. In:
Adkinson NF Jr, Bochner BS, Burks AW, et al, eds. _Middleton's Allergy
Principles and Practice_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2014:chap 55.

## Read More

    * Asthma
    * Asthma and allergy resources
    * Asthma in children

## Patient Instructions

    * Allergic rhinitis - what to ask your doctor - adult
    * Allergic rhinitis - what to ask your doctor - child
    * Asthma and school
    * Asthma - child - discharge
    * Asthma - control drugs
    * Asthma in adults - what to ask the doctor
    * Asthma in children - what to ask your doctor
    * Asthma - quick-relief drugs 
    * Exercise-induced asthma
    * Exercising and asthma at school 
    * How to use a nebulizer
    * How to use an inhaler - no spacer
    * How to use an inhaler - with spacer
    * How to use your peak flow meter
    * Make peak flow a habit
    * Signs of an asthma attack
    * Stay away from asthma triggers

## Review Date 2/18/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. 02-25-19: Editorial update.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Asthma
    * Asthma in Children

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

