Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000504.htm    
                                Description: Things that make your allergies or asthma worse are called triggers. Smoking is a trigger for many people who have asthma.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Smoking and asthma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000504.htm

# Smoking and asthma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Things that make your allergies or asthma worse are called triggers. Smoking
is a trigger for many people who have asthma.

## Smoking and Asthma Don't Go Together

You do not have to be a smoker for smoking to cause harm. Exposure to someone
else's smoking (called secondhand smoke) is a trigger for asthma attacks in
children and adults.

Smoking can weaken lung function. When you have asthma and you smoke, your
lungs will weaken more rapidly. Smoking around children with asthma will
weaken their lung function, too.

## If you Smoke

If you smoke, ask your health care provider to help you quit. There are many
ways to quit smoking. List the reasons why you want to quit. Then set a quit
date. Many people need to try quitting more than once. Keep trying if you do
not succeed at first.

Ask your provider about:

    * Medicines to help you stop smoking
    * Nicotine replacement therapy
    * Stop smoking programs

## Secondhand Smoke and Children

Children who are around others who smoke are much more likely to:

    * Need emergency room care more often
    * Miss school more often
    * Have asthma that is harder to control
    * Have more colds
    * Begin smoking themselves 

No one should smoke in your house. This includes you and your visitors.

Smokers should smoke outside and wear a coat. The coat will keep smoke
particles from sticking to their clothes. They should leave the coat outside
or put it somewhere away from a child with asthma.

Ask people who work at your child's daycare, school, and anyone else who takes
care of your child if they smoke. If they do, make sure they smoke away from
your child.

Stay away from restaurants and bars that allow smoking. Or ask for a table as
far away from smokers as possible.

When you travel, do not stay in rooms that allow smoking.

## Secondhand Smoke and Adults

Secondhand smoke will also cause more asthma attacks and make allergies worse
in adults.

If there are smokers at your workplace, ask someone about policies regarding
if and where smoking is allowed. To help with secondhand smoke at work:

    * Make sure there are proper containers for smokers to throw away their cigarette butts and matches.
    * Ask coworkers who smoke to keep their coats away from work areas.
    * Use a fan and keep windows open, if possible. 

## References

Balmes JR, Eisner MD. Indoor and outdoor air pollution. In: Broaddus VC, Mason
RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory
Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 74.

Benowitz NL, Brunetta PG. Smoking hazards and cessation. In: Broaddus VC,
Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory
Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 46.

Durrani SR, Busse WW. Management of asthma in adolescents and adults. In:
Adkinson NF, Bochner BS, Burks AW, et al, eds. _Middleton's Allergy:
Principles and Practice_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2014:chap 55.

Sands MF. Smoking and asthma: never the twain should meet. _Ann Allergy Asthma
Immuno_. 2014;113(5):502-505. PMID: 25240333
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25240333.

## Review Date 1/14/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Asthma
    * Secondhand Smoke
    * Smoking

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

