Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000005.htm    
                                Description: Control medicines for asthma are drugs you take to control your asthma symptoms. You must take them every day for them to work. You and your doctor can make a plan for the medicines that work for you.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Asthma - control drugs

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000005.htm

# Asthma - control drugs

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Control medicines for asthma are drugs you take to control your asthma
symptoms. You must take them every day for them to work. You and your doctor
can make a plan for the medicines that work for you. This plan will include
when you should take them and how much you should take.

You may need to take these medicines for at least a month before you start to
feel better.

Take the medicines even when you feel OK. Take enough with you when you
travel. Plan ahead. Make sure you do not run out.

## Inhaled Corticosteroids

Inhaled corticosteroids prevent your airways from swelling in order to help
keep your asthma symptoms away.

Inhaled steroids are used with a metered dose inhaler (MDI) and spacer. Or,
they may be used with a dry powder inhaler.

You should use an inhaled steroid every day, even if you do not have symptoms.

After you use it, rinse your mouth with water, gargle, and spit it out.

If your child cannot use an inhaler, your doctor will give you a drug to use
with a nebulizer. This machine turns liquid medicine into a spray so your
child can breathe the medicine in.

## Long-acting Beta-agonist Inhalers

These medicines relax the muscles of your airways to help keep your asthma
symptoms away.

Normally, you use these medicines only when you are using an inhaled steroid
drug and you still have symptoms. DO NOT take these long-acting medicines
alone.

Use this medicine every day, even if you do not have symptoms.

## Combination Therapy

Your doctor may ask you to take both a steroid drug and a long-acting beta-
agonist drug.

It may be easier to use an inhaler that has both drugs in them.

## Leukotriene Modifiers

These medicines are used to prevent asthma symptoms. They come in tablet or
pill form and can be used together with a steroid inhaler.

## Cromolyn

Cromolyn is a medicine that may prevent asthma symptoms. It can be used in a
nebulizer, so it may be easy for young children to take.

## Alternative Names

Asthma - inhaled corticosteroids; Asthma - long-acting beta-agonists; Asthma -
leukotriene modifiers; Asthma - cromolyn; Bronchial asthma-control drugs;
Wheezing - control drugs; Reactive airway disease - control drugs

## Images

    * ![Asthma control drugs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22865t.jpg)Asthma control drugs

## References

Bergstrom J, Kurth SM, Bruhl E, et al. Institute for Clinical Systems
Improvement website. Health Care Guideline: Diagnosis and Management of
Asthma. 11th ed. www.icsi.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/01/Asthma.pdf. Updated
December 2016. Accessed February 28, 2018.

Durrani SR, Busse WW. Management of asthma in adolescents and adults. In:
Adkinson NF Jr, Bochner BS, Burks AW, et al, eds. _Middleton's Allergy:
Principles and Practice_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2014:chap 55.

Papi A, Brightling C, Pedersen SE, Reddel HK. Asthma. _Lancet_.
2018;391(10122):783-800. PMID: 29273246 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29273246.

## Read More

    * Asthma
    * Asthma and allergy resources
    * Asthma in children
    * Wheezing

## Patient Instructions

    * Asthma and school
    * Asthma - child - discharge
    * Asthma in adults - what to ask the doctor
    * Asthma in children - what to ask your doctor
    * Asthma - quick-relief drugs 
    * Bronchiolitis - discharge
    * Exercise-induced asthma
    * Exercising and asthma at school 
    * How to use a nebulizer
    * How to use an inhaler - no spacer
    * How to use an inhaler - with spacer
    * How to use your peak flow meter
    * Make peak flow a habit
    * Signs of an asthma attack
    * Stay away from asthma triggers

## Review Date 2/18/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. 02-25-19: Editorial update.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Asthma
    * Asthma in Children

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

