Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000008.htm    
                                Description: Asthma quick-relief medicines work fast to control asthma symptoms. You take them when you are coughing, wheezing, having trouble breathing, or having an asthma attack. They are also called rescue drugs.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Asthma - quick-relief drugs

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000008.htm

# Asthma - quick-relief drugs

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Asthma quick-relief medicines work fast to control asthma symptoms. You take
them when you are coughing, wheezing, having trouble breathing, or having an
asthma attack. They are also called rescue drugs.

These medicines are called "bronchodilators" because they open (dilate) and
help relax the muscles of your airways (bronchi).

You and your doctor can make a plan for the quick-relief drugs that work for
you. This plan will include when you should take them and how much you should
take.

Plan ahead. Make sure you do not run out. Take enough with you when you
travel.

## Short-acting Beta-agonists

Short-acting beta-agonists are the most common quick-relief drugs for treating
asthma attacks.

They can be used just before exercising to help prevent asthma symptoms caused
by exercise. They work by relaxing the muscles of your airways, and this lets
you breathe better during an attack.

Tell your doctor if you are using quick-relief medicines twice a week or more
to control your asthma symptoms. Your asthma may not be under control, and
your doctor may need to change your dose of daily control drugs.

Some quick-relief asthma medicines include:

    * Albuterol (ProAir HFA, Proventil HFA, Ventolin HFA)
    * Levalbuterol (Xopenex HFA)
    * Metaproterenol
    * Terbutaline 

Quick-relief asthma medicines may cause these side effects:

    * Anxiety.
    * Tremor (your hand or another part of your body may shake).
    * Restlessness.
    * Headache.
    * Fast and irregular heartbeats. Call your doctor right away if you have this side effect. 

## Oral Steroids

Your doctor might prescribe oral steroids when you have an asthma attack that
is not going away. These are medicines that you take by mouth as pills,
capsules, or liquids.

Oral steroids are not quick-relief medicines but are often given for 7 to 14
days when your symptoms flare-up.

Oral steroids include:

    * Prednisone
    * Prednisolone
    * Methylprednisolone 

## Alternative Names

Asthma - quick-relief drugs - short-acting beta-agonists; Asthma - quick-
relief drugs - bronchodilators; Asthma - quick-relief drugs - oral steroids;
Asthma - rescue drugs; Bronchial asthma - quick relief; Reactive airway
disease - quick relief; Exercise-induced asthma - quick relief

## Images

    * ![Asthma quick-relief drugs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22866t.jpg)Asthma quick-relief drugs

## References

Bergstrom J, Kurth SM, Bruhl E, et al. Institute for Clinical Systems
Improvement website. Health Care Guideline: Diagnosis and Management of
Asthma. 11th ed. www.icsi.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/01/Asthma.pdf. Updated
December 2016. Accessed February 28, 2018.

Durrani SR, Busse WW. Management of asthma in adolescents and adults. In:
Adkinson NF Jr, Bochner BS, Burks AW, et al, eds. _Middleton's Allergy:
Principles and Practice_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2014:chap 55.

Papi A, Brightling C, Pedersen SE, Reddel HK. Asthma. _Lancet_.
2018;391(10122):783-800. PMID: 29273246 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29273246.

## Read More

    * Allergies - overview
    * Asthma
    * Asthma and allergy resources
    * Asthma in children
    * Wheezing

## Patient Instructions

    * Asthma and school
    * Asthma - child - discharge
    * Asthma - control drugs
    * Asthma in adults - what to ask the doctor
    * Asthma in children - what to ask your doctor
    * Bronchiolitis - discharge
    * Exercise-induced asthma
    * Exercising and asthma at school 
    * How to use a nebulizer
    * How to use an inhaler - no spacer
    * How to use an inhaler - with spacer
    * How to use your peak flow meter
    * Make peak flow a habit
    * Signs of an asthma attack
    * Stay away from asthma triggers

## Review Date 2/18/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. 02-25-19: Editorial update.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Asthma
    * Asthma in Children

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

