Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000066.htm    
                                Description: If you have breathing problems and you:    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Traveling with breathing problems

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000066.htm

# Traveling with breathing problems

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

If you have breathing problems and you:

    * Are short of breath most of the time
    * Get short of breath when you walk 150 feet (45 meters) or less
    * Have been in the hospital for breathing problems recently
    * Use oxygen at home, even if just at night or with exercise

If you were in the hospital for your breathing problems and had:

    * Pneumonia
    * Chest surgery
    * A collapsed lung 

Also talk to your doctor if you plan to travel in a place at a high altitude
(such as Colorado or Utah).

## Oxygen and air Travel

Two weeks before you travel, tell your airline that you will need oxygen on
the plane. (The airline may not be able to accommodate you if you tell them
less than 48 hours before your flight.)

    * Make sure you talk with someone at the airline who knows how to help you plan for having oxygen on the plane.
    * You will need a prescription for oxygen and a letter from your doctor.
    * In the United States, you can usually bring your own oxygen on a plane.

Airlines and airports will not provide oxygen while you are not on an
airplane. This includes before and after the flight, and during a layover.
Call your oxygen supplier who may be able to help.

On the day of travel:

    * Get to the airport at least 90 minutes before your flight.
    * Have an extra copy of your doctor's letter and prescription for oxygen.
    * Carry lightweight luggage, if possible.
    * Use a wheelchair and other services for getting around the airport.

## Stay Away From Infections

Get a flu shot every year to help prevent infection. Ask your doctor if you
need a pneumonia shot. Get one if you do.

Wash your hands often. Stay away from crowds. Ask visitors who have a cold to
wear a mask.

## Find out About Medical Care Where you are Going

Have a name, phone number, and address of a doctor. DO NOT go to areas that do
not have good medical care.

Bring enough medicine, even some extra. Bring copies of your recent medical
records with you.

Contact your oxygen company and find out if they can provide oxygen in the
city you are traveling to.

## Other Travel Tips

You should:

    * Always ask for non-smoking hotel rooms.
    * Stay away from places where people are smoking.
    * Try to stay away from cities with polluted air.

## Alternative Names

Oxygen - travel; Collapsed lung - travel; Chest surgery - travel; COPD -
travel; Chronic obstructive airways disease - travel; Chronic obstructive lung
disease - travel; Chronic bronchitis - travel; Emphysema - travel

## References

American Lung Association website. What goes in an asthma or COPD travel pack?
www.lung.org/about-us/blog/2017/09/asthma-copd-travel-pack.html. Updated March
16, 2018. Accessed July 23, 2019.

American Thoracic Society website. Oxygen therapy.
www.thoracic.org/patients/patient-resources/resources/oxygen-therapy.pdf.
Updated April 2016. Accessed February 28, 2018.

COPD Foundation website. Oxygen therapy. www.copdfoundation.org/What-is-
COPD/Living-with-COPD/Oxygen-Therapy.aspx. Updated June 2015. Accessed
February 28, 2018.

Luks AM, Schiene RB, Swenson ER. High altitude. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ,
Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_.
6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 77.

## Read More

    * Asthma
    * Breathing difficulty
    * Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)
    * Interstitial lung disease
    * Lung surgery

## Patient Instructions

    * Asthma - child - discharge
    * Bronchiolitis - discharge
    * Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease - adults - discharge
    * COPD - control drugs
    * COPD - quick-relief drugs
    * Lung surgery - discharge 
    * Oxygen safety
    * Pneumonia in children - discharge
    * Using oxygen at home
    * Using oxygen at home - what to ask your doctor 

## Review Date 2/18/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. Editorial update 07/23/2019.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Asthma
    * Asthma in Children
    * Breathing Problems
    * Chronic Bronchitis
    * Cystic Fibrosis
    * Emphysema
    * Oxygen Therapy

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

