Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000110.htm    
                                Description: Occupational asthma is a lung disorder in which substances found in the workplace cause the airways of the lungs to swell and narrow. This leads to attacks of wheezing, shortness of breath, chest tightness,    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Occupational asthma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000110.htm

# Occupational asthma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Occupational asthma is a lung disorder in which substances found in the
workplace cause the airways of the lungs to swell and narrow. This leads to
attacks of wheezing, shortness of breath, chest tightness, and coughing.

## Causes

Asthma is caused by inflammation (swelling) in the airways of the lungs. When
an asthma attack occurs, the lining of the air passages swells and the muscles
surrounding the airways become tight. This makes the airways narrower and
reduces the amount of air that can pass through.

In people who have sensitive airways, asthma symptoms can be triggered by
breathing in substances called triggers.

Many substances in the workplace can trigger asthma symptoms, leading to
occupational asthma. The most common triggers are wood dust, grain dust,
animal dander, fungi, or chemicals.

The following workers are at higher risk:

    * Bakers
    * Detergent manufacturers
    * Drug manufacturers
    * Farmers
    * Grain elevator workers
    * Laboratory workers (especially those working with laboratory animals)
    * Metal workers
    * Millers
    * Plastics workers
    * Woodworkers

## Symptoms

Symptoms are usually due toÂ narrowing of the airways and tightening spasms of
the muscles lining the airways. This reduces the amount of air that can pass
through, which can lead to wheezing sounds.

Symptoms usually occur shortly after you are exposed to the substance. They
often improve or go away when you leave work. Some people may not have
symptoms until 12 or more hours after being exposed to the trigger.

Symptoms usually get worse toward the end of the work week and may go away on
weekends or vacations.

Symptoms include:

    * Coughing
    * Shortness of breath
    * Tight feeling in the chest
    * Wheezing

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about your
medical history. The provider will listen to your lungs with a stethoscope to
check for wheezing.

Tests may beÂ ordered toÂ confirm diagnosis:

    * Blood tests to look for antibodies to the substance
    * Bronchial provocation test (test measuring reaction to the suspected trigger)
    * Chest x-ray
    * Complete blood count
    * Lung function tests
    * Peak expiratory flow rate

## Treatment

Avoiding exposure to the substance that is causing your asthma is the best
treatment.

Measures may include:

    * Changing jobs (though this may be difficult to do)
    * Moving to a different location at theÂ work siteÂ where there is less exposure to the substance. This may help, but over time, even a very small amount of the substance can trigger an asthma attack.
    * Using a respiratory device to protect or reduce your exposure may help.

Asthma medicines may help manage your symptoms.

Your provider may prescribe:

    * Asthma quick-relief medicines, called bronchodilators, to help relax the muscles of your airways 
    * Asthma control medicines that are taken every day to prevent symptoms

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Occupational asthma may keep getting worse if you continue to be exposed to
the substance that is causing the problem, even if medicines improve your
symptoms. You may need to change jobs.

Sometimes, symptoms may continue, even when the substance is removed.

In general, the outcome for people with occupational asthma is good. However,
symptoms may continue for years after you are no longer exposed in the
workplace.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of asthma.

Talk to your provider about getting the flu and pneumonia vaccines.

If you've been diagnosed with asthma, call your provider right away if you
develop a cough, shortness of breath, fever, or other signs of a lung
infection, especially if you think you have the flu. Since your lungs are
already damaged, it's very important to have the infection treated right away.
This will prevent breathing problems from becoming severe, as well as further
damage to your lungs.

## Alternative Names

Asthma - occupational exposure; Irritant-induced reactive airways disease

## Images

    * ![Spirometry](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1142t.jpg)Spirometry
    * ![Respiratory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9248t.jpg)Respiratory system

## References

Lemiere C, Martin JG. Occupational respiratory allergies. In: Rich RR,
Fleisher TA, Shearer WT, Schroeder HW, Frew AJ, Weyand CM, eds. _Clinical
Immunology: Principles and Practice_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 49.

Lemiere C, Vandenplas O. Asthma in the workplace. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ,
Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_.
6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 72.

Lugogo N, Que LG, Gilstrap DL, Kraft M. Asthma: clinical diagnosis and
management. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and
Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 42.

## Review Date 4/8/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Asthma](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Asthma2_thumb.jpg)Asthma _Read more_

![Occupational
Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/OccupationalHealth_thumb.jpg)Occupational
Health _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

