Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000062.htm    
                                Description: If you do not know if you have asthma, these 4 symptoms could be signs that you do:    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Signs of an asthma attack

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000062.htm

# Signs of an asthma attack

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

If you do not know if you have asthma, these 4 symptoms could be signs that
you do:

    *  **Coughing** that sometimes wakes you up at night.
    *  **Wheezing** , or a whistling sound when you breathe. You may hear it more when you breathe out. It can start as a low-sounding whistle and get higher.
    *  **Breathing problems** that include having shortness of breath, feeling like you are out of breath, gasping for air, having trouble breathing out, or breathing faster than normal. When breathing gets very difficult, the skin of your chest and neck may suck inward.
    *  **Chest tightness**

## Other Warning Signs

Other early warning signs of an asthma attack are:

    * Dark bags under your eyes
    * Fatigue
    * Being short-tempered or irritable
    * Feeling nervous or edgy

## Danger Signs

Call 911 or your local emergency number right away if you have any of the
following symptoms. These are signs of a serious medical emergency.

    * You are having trouble walking or talking because it is so hard to breathe.
    * You are hunching over.
    * Your lips or fingernails are blue or gray.
    * You are confused or less responsive than usual. 

If your child has asthma, the child's caregivers must know to call 911 if your
child has any of these symptoms. This includes teachers, babysitters, and
others who take care of your child.

## Alternative Names

Asthma attack - signs of; Reactive airway disease - asthma attack; Bronchial
asthma - attack

## References

Bergstrom J, Kurth SM, Bruhl E, et al. Institute for Clinical Systems
Improvement website. Health Care Guideline: Diagnosis and Management of
Asthma. 11th ed. www.icsi.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/01/Asthma.pdf. Updated
December 2016. Accessed February 28, 2018.

Durrani SR, Busse WW. Management of asthma in adolescents and adults. In:
Adkinson NF Jr, Bochner BS, Burks AW, et al, eds. _Middleton's Allergy
Principles and Practice_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2014:chap 55.

## Read More

    * Asthma
    * Asthma and allergy resources
    * Asthma in children

## Patient Instructions

    * Asthma and school
    * Asthma - child - discharge
    * Asthma - control drugs
    * Asthma in adults - what to ask the doctor
    * Asthma in children - what to ask your doctor
    * Asthma - quick-relief drugs 
    * Exercise-induced asthma
    * Exercising and asthma at school 
    * How to use a nebulizer
    * How to use an inhaler - no spacer
    * How to use an inhaler - with spacer
    * How to use your peak flow meter
    * Make peak flow a habit
    * Stay away from asthma triggers

## Review Date 2/18/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. 02-25-19: Editorial update.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Asthma
    * Asthma in Children

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

