Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000489.htm    
                                Description: In people who have sensitive airways, allergy and asthma symptoms can be triggered by breathing in substances called allergens, or triggers. It is important to know your triggers because avoiding them    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Allergies, asthma, and pollen

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000489.htm

# Allergies, asthma, and pollen

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

In people who have sensitive airways, allergy and asthma symptoms can be
triggered by breathing in substances called allergens, or triggers. It is
important to know your triggers because avoiding them is your first step
toward feeling better. Pollen is a common trigger.

## Pollens

Pollen is a trigger for many people who have allergies and asthma. The types
of pollens that are triggers vary from person to person and from region to
region. Plants that may trigger hay fever (allergic rhinitis) and asthma
include:

    * Some trees
    * Some grasses
    * Weeds
    * Ragweed 

## Watch the Weather and the Season

The amount of pollen in the air can affect whether you or your child has hay
fever and asthma symptoms.

    * On hot, dry, windy days, more pollen is in the air.
    * On cool, rainy days, most pollen is washed to the ground. 

Different plants produce pollen at different times of the year.

    * Most trees produce pollen in the spring.
    * Grasses usually produce pollen during the late spring and summer.
    * Ragweed and other late-blooming plants produce pollen during late summer and early fall. 

## When Pollen Levels are High

The weather report on TV or on the radio often has pollen count information.
Or, you can look it up online. When pollen levels are high:

    * Stay indoors and keep doors and windows closed. Use an air conditioner if you have one.
    * Save outside activities for late afternoon or after a heavy rain. Avoid the outdoors between 5 a.m. and 10 a.m.
    * DO NOT dry clothes outdoors. Pollen will stick to them.
    * Have someone who does not have asthma cut the grass. Or, wear a face mask if you must do it.

Keep grass cut short or replace your grass with a ground cover. Choose a
ground cover that does not produce much pollen, such as Irish moss, bunch
grass, or dichondra.

If you buy trees for your yard, look for tree types that will not make your
allergies worse, such as:

    * Crape myrtle, dogwood, fig, fir, palm, pear, plum, redbud, and redwood trees
    * Female cultivars of ash, box elder, cottonwood, maple, palm, poplar or willow trees

## Alternative Names

Reactive airway - pollen; Bronchial asthma - pollen; Triggers - pollen;
Allergic rhinitis - pollen

## References

American Academy of Allergy Asthma & Immunology website. Indoor allergens.
www.aaaai.org/conditions-and-treatments/library/allergy-library/indoor-
allergens. Accessed June 18, 2018.

Cipriani F, Calamelli E, Ricci G. Allergen avoidance in allergic asthma.
_Front Pediatr_. 2017;5:103. PMCID: PMC5423906
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5423906.

Corren J, Baroody FM, Pawankar R. Allergic and nonallergic rhinitis. In:
Adkinson NF Jr, Bochner BS, Burks AW, et al, eds. _Middleton's Allergy
Principles and Practice_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2014:chap 42.

## Review Date 5/20/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Allergy
    * Asthma
    * Hay Fever

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

