Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000208.htm    
                                Description: Asthma is a problem with the lung airways. A person with asthma may not feel symptoms all the time. But when an asthma attack happens, it becomes hard for air to pass through your airways. The symptoms    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Asthma in adults - what to ask the doctor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000208.htm

# Asthma in adults - what to ask the doctor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Asthma is a problem with the lung airways. A person with asthma may not feel
symptoms all the time. But when an asthma attack happens, it becomes hard for
air to pass through your airways. The symptoms are usually:

    * Coughing
    * Wheezing
    * Chest tightness
    * Shortness of breath 

In rare cases, asthma causes chest pain.

Below are some questions you may want to ask your health care provider to help
you take care of your asthma.

## Questions

Am I taking my asthma medicines the right way?

    * What medicines should I be taking every day (called controller drugs)? What should I do if I miss a day or a dose?
    * How should I adjust my medicines if I feel better or worse?
    * Which medicines should I take when I am short of breath (called rescue or quick-relief drugs)? Is it OK to use these rescue drugs every day?
    * What are the side effects of my medicines? For what side effects should I call the doctor?
    * Am I using my inhaler the right way? Should I be using a spacer? How will I know when my inhalers are getting empty?
    * When should I use my nebulizer instead of my inhaler? 

What are some signs that my asthma is getting worse and that I need to call
the doctor? What should I do when I feel short of breath?

What shots or vaccinations do I need?

What will make my asthma worse?

    * How can I prevent things that can make my asthma worse?
    * How can I prevent getting a lung infection?
    * How can I get help quitting smoking?
    * How do I find out when smog or pollution is worse? 

What sort of changes should I make around my home?

    * Can I have a pet? In the house or outside? How about in the bedroom?
    * Is it OK for me to clean and vacuum in the house?
    * Is it OK to have carpets in the house?
    * What type of furniture is best to have?
    * How do I get rid of dust and mold in the house? Do I need to cover my bed or pillows?
    * How do I know if I have cockroaches in my home? How do I get rid of them?
    * Can I have a fire in my fireplace or wood-burning stove? 

What sort of changes do I need to make at work?

What exercises are better for me to do?

    * Are there times when I should avoid being outside and exercising?
    * Are there things that I can do before I start exercising?
    * Would I benefit from pulmonary rehabilitation?  

Do I need tests or treatments for allergies? What should I do when I know I am
going to be around something that triggers my asthma?

What type of planning do I need to do before I travel?

    * What medicines should I bring?
    * Whom should I call if my asthma gets worse?
    * Should I have extra medicines in case something happens? 

## Alternative Names

What to ask your doctor about asthma - adult

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Asthma.
www.cdc.gov/asthma/default.htm. Updated April 24, 2018. Accessed November 20,
2018.

Lugogo N, Que LG, Gilstrap DL, Kraft M. Asthma: clinical diagnosis and
management. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and
Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 42.

National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute website. Guidelines for the
diagnosis and management of asthma (EPR-3).
www.nhlbi.nih.gov/guidelines/asthma/asthgdln.htm. Updated August 2007.
Accessed November 20, 2018.

## Read More

    * Asthma
    * Asthma and allergy resources

## Patient Instructions

    * Asthma - control drugs
    * Asthma - quick-relief drugs 
    * Exercise-induced asthma
    * How to use an inhaler - no spacer
    * How to use an inhaler - with spacer
    * How to use your peak flow meter
    * Make peak flow a habit
    * Signs of an asthma attack
    * Stay away from asthma triggers

## Review Date 11/3/2018

Updated by: Denis Hadjiliadis, MD, MHS, Paul F. Harron Jr. Associate Professor
of Medicine, Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care, Perelman School of
Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. Also reviewed by David
Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Asthma

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

