Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000006.htm    
                                Description: Because you have asthma, COPD, or another lung disease, your doctor has prescribed medicine that you need to take using a nebulizer. A nebulizer is a small machine that turns liquid medicine into a mist.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

How to use a nebulizer

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000006.htm

# How to use a nebulizer

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Because you have asthma, COPD, or another lung disease, your doctor has
prescribed medicine that you need to take using a nebulizer. A nebulizer is a
small machine that turns liquid medicine into a mist. You sit with the machine
and breathe in through a connected mouthpiece. Medicine goes into your lungs
as you take slow, deep breaths for 10 to 15 minutes. It is easy and pleasant
to breathe the medicine into your lungs this way.

If you have asthma, you may not need to use a nebulizer. You may use an
inhaler instead, which is usually just as effective. But a nebulizer can
deliver medicine with less effort than an inhaler. You and your doctor can
decide if a nebulizer is the best way to get the medicine you need. The choice
of device may be based on whether you find a nebulizer easier to use and what
type of medicine you take.

Most nebulizers are small, so they are easy to transport. Also, most
nebulizers also work by using air compressors. A different kind, called an
ultrasonic nebulizer, uses sound vibrations. This kind of nebulizer is
quieter, but costs more.

Take the time to keep your nebulizer clean so that it continues to work
properly.

Use your nebulizer according to the manufacturer's instructions.

The basic steps to set up and use your nebulizer are as follows:

    1. Wash your hands well.
    2. Connect the hose to an air compressor.
    3. Fill the medicine cup with your prescription. To avoid spills, close the medicine cup tightly and always hold the mouthpiece straight up and down.
    4. Attach the hose and mouthpiece to the medicine cup.
    5. Place the mouthpiece in your mouth. Keep your lips firm around the mouthpiece so that all of the medicine goes into your lungs.
    6. Breathe through your mouth until all the medicine is used. This takes 10 to 15 minutes. If needed, use a nose clip so that you breathe only through your mouth. Small children usually do better if they wear a mask.
    7. Turn off the machine when done.
    8. Wash the medicine cup and mouthpiece with water and air dry until your next treatment. 

## Alternative Names

Nebulizer - how to use; Asthma - how to use a nebulizer; COPD - how to use a
nebulizer; Wheezing - nebulizer; Reactive airway - nebulizer; COPD -
nebulizer; Chronic bronchitis - nebulizer; Emphysema - nebulizer

## References

Laube BL, Dolovich MB. Aerosols and aerosol drug delivery systems. In:
Adkinson NF Jr, Bochner BS, Burks AW, et al, eds. _Middleton's Allergy:
Principles and Practice_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2014:chap 66.

National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute website. National Asthma Education
and Prevention Program. How to use a metered-dose inhaler.
www.nhlbi.nih.gov/files/docs/public/lung/asthma_tipsheets.pdf. Updated March
2013. Accessed February 28, 2018.

## Read More

    * Asthma
    * Asthma and allergy resources
    * Asthma in children
    * Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)
    * Wheezing

## Patient Instructions

    * Asthma - control drugs
    * Asthma - quick-relief drugs 
    * Bronchiolitis - discharge
    * COPD - control drugs
    * Exercise-induced asthma
    * Exercising and asthma at school 
    * Make peak flow a habit
    * Signs of an asthma attack
    * Stay away from asthma triggers

## Review Date 2/18/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Asthma
    * Asthma in Children

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

