Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003070.htm    
                                Description: Wheezing is a high-pitched whistling sound during breathing. It occurs when air moves through narrowed breathing tubes in the lungs.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Wheezing

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003070.htm

# Wheezing

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Wheezing is a high-pitched whistling sound during breathing. It occurs when
air moves through narrowed breathing tubes in the lungs.

## Considerations

Wheezing is a sign that a person may be having breathing problems. The sound
of wheezing is most obvious when breathing out (exhaling). It may also be
heard when breathing in (inhaling).

Wheezing most often comes from the small breathing tubes (bronchial tubes)
deep in the lungs. But it may be due to a blockage in larger airways or in
persons with certain vocal cord problems.

## Causes

Causes of wheezing may include any of the following:

    * Asthma
    * Breathing a foreign object into the airways to the lungs
    * Damage and widening of the large airways in the lungs (bronchiectasis)
    * Swelling and mucus buildup in the smallest air passages in the lungs (bronchiolitis)
    * Swelling and mucus buildup in the main passages that carry air to the lungs (bronchitis)
    * COPD, especially when a respiratory infection is present
    * Acid reflux disease
    * Heart failure (cardiac asthma)
    * Insect sting that causes an allergic reaction
    * Certain medicines (particularly aspirin)
    * Infection of the lungs (pneumonia)
    * Smoking
    * Viral infection, especially in infants younger than age 2

## Home Care

Take all of your medicines as directed.

Sitting in an area where there is moist, heated air may help relieve some
symptoms. This can be done by running a hot shower or using a vaporizer.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if wheezing:

    * Occurs for the first time
    * Occurs with significant shortness of breath, bluish skin, confusion, or mental status changes
    * Keeps occurring without explanation
    * Is caused by an allergic reaction to a bite or medicine

If wheezing is severe or occurs with severe shortness of breath, you should go
directly to the nearest emergency department.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will perform a physical exam and ask about your medical history
and symptoms. Questions about your wheezing may include when it started, how
long it has lasted, when it is worse, and what might have caused it.

The physical exam may include listening to the lung sounds (auscultation). If
your child has the symptoms, the provider will make sure your child didn't
swallow a foreign object.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Blood work, possibly including arterial blood gases
    * Chest x-ray
    * Lung function tests 

A hospital stay may be needed if:

    * Breathing is particularly difficult
    * Medicines need to be given through a vein (IV)
    * Supplemental oxygen is required
    * The person needs to be closely watched by medical personnel

## Alternative Names

Sibilant rhonchi; Wheezing asthma; Wheezing - bronchiectasis; Wheezing -
bronchiolitis; Wheezing - bronchitis; Wheezing - COPD; Wheezing - heart
failure

## Patient Instructions

    * Asthma and school
    * Asthma - control drugs
    * Asthma - quick-relief drugs 
    * Exercise-induced asthma
    * How to use a nebulizer

## Images

    * ![Lungs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1103t.jpg)Lungs

## References

Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF. Wheezing, bronchiolitis, and
bronchitis. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson
Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 391.

Woodruff PG, Bhakta NR, Fahy JV. Asthma: pathogenesis and phenotypes. In:
Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of
Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap
41.

## Review Date 5/20/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Asthma](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Asthma2_thumb.jpg)Asthma _Read more_

![Asthma in
Children](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AsthmainChildren_thumb.jpg)Asthma in
Children _Read more_

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Breathing_thumb.jpg)Breathing Problems
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

