Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000141.htm    
                                Description: Asthma is a disease that causes the airways of the lungs to swell and narrow. It leads to wheezing, shortness of breath, chest tightness, and coughing.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Asthma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000141.htm

# Asthma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Asthma is a disease that causes the airways of the lungs to swell and narrow.
It leads to wheezing, shortness of breath, chest tightness, and coughing.

![Normal versus asthmatic
bronchiole](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19346.jpg)

## Causes

Asthma is caused by swelling (inflammation) in the airways. When an asthma
attack occurs, the lining of the air passages swells and the muscles
surrounding the airways become tight. This reduces the amount of air that can
pass through the airway.

In people who have sensitive airways, asthma symptoms can be triggered by
breathing in substances called allergens or triggers.

![Common asthma
triggers](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19381.jpg)

Common asthma triggers include:

    * Animals (pet hair or dander)
    * Dust mites
    * Certain medicines (aspirin and other NSAIDS)
    * Changes in weather (most often cold weather)
    * Chemicals in the air or in food
    * Exercise
    * Mold
    * Pollen
    * Respiratory infections, such as the common cold
    * Strong emotions (stress)
    * Tobacco smoke 

Substances in some workplaces can also trigger asthma symptoms, leading to
occupational asthma. The most common triggers are wood dust, grain dust,
animal dander, fungi, or chemicals.

Many people with asthma have a personal or family history of allergies, such
as hay fever (allergic rhinitis) or eczema. Others have no history of
allergies.

## Symptoms

Most people with asthma have attacks separated by symptom-free periods. Some
people have long-term shortness of breath with episodes of increased shortness
of breath. Either wheezing or a cough may be the main symptom.

Asthma attacks can last for minutes to days. Attacks can become dangerous if
airflow is severely blocked.

Symptoms of asthma include:

    * Cough with or without sputum (phlegm) production
    * Pulling in of the skin between the ribs when breathing (intercostal retractions)
    * Shortness of breath that gets worse with exercise or activity
    * Wheezing 

Emergency symptoms that need prompt medical help include:

    * Bluish color to the lips and face
    * Decreased level of alertness, such as severe drowsiness or confusion, during an asthma attack
    * Extreme difficulty breathing
    * Rapid pulse
    * Severe anxiety due to shortness of breath
    * Sweating 

Other symptoms that may occur:

    * Abnormal breathing pattern -- breathing out takes more than twice as long as breathing in
    * Breathing temporarily stops
    * Chest pain
    * Tightness in the chest 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will use a stethoscope to listen to your lungs.
Wheezing or other asthma-related sounds may be heard.

Tests that may be ordered include:

    * Allergy testing -- skin or a blood test to see if a person with asthma is allergic to certain substances
    * Arterial blood gas (usually only done with people who are having a severe asthma attack)
    * Chest x-ray
    * Lung function tests, including peak flow measurements 

## Treatment

The goals of treatment are:

    * Control airway swelling
    * Stay away from substances that trigger your symptoms
    * Help you to be able to do normal activities without asthma symptoms

You and your doctor should work as a team to manage your asthma. Follow your
doctor's instructions on taking medicines, eliminating asthma triggers, and
monitoring symptoms.

MEDICINES FOR ASTHMA

There are two kinds of medicines for treating asthma:

    * Control medicines to help prevent attacks
    * Quick-relief (rescue) medicines for use during attacks

LONG-TERM MEDICINES

These are also called maintenance or control medicines. They are used to
prevent symptoms in people with moderate to severe asthma. You must take them
every day for them to work. Take them even when you feel OK.

Some long-term medicines are breathed in (inhaled), such as steroids and long-
acting beta-agonists. Others are taken by mouth (orally). Your doctor will
prescribe the right medicine for you.

QUICK-RELIEF MEDICINES

These are also called rescue medicines. They are taken:

    * For coughing, wheezing, trouble breathing, or an asthma attack
    * Just before exercising to help prevent asthma symptoms caused by exercise

Tell your doctor if you are using quick-relief medicines twice a week or more.
If so, your asthma may not be under control and your doctor may need to change
your dose of daily control drugs.

Quick-relief medicines include:

    * Short-acting inhaled bronchodilators
    * Oral corticosteroids for when you have an asthma attack that is not going away

A severe asthma attack requires a checkup by a doctor. You may also need a
hospital stay. There, you will likely be given oxygen, breathing assistance,
and medicines given through a vein (IV).

ASTHMA CARE AT HOME

    * Know the asthma symptoms to watch for.
    * Know how to take your peak flow reading and what it means.
    * Know which triggers make your asthma worse and what to do when this happens.
    * Know how to care for your asthma when you exercise.

Asthma action plans are written documents for managing asthma. An asthma
action plan should include:

    * Instructions for taking asthma medicines when your condition is stable
    * A list of asthma triggers and how to avoid them
    * How to recognize when your asthma is getting worse, and when to call your provider

A peak flow meter is a simple device to measure how quickly you can move air
out of your lungs.

    * It can help you see if an attack is coming, sometimes even before symptoms appear. Peak flow measurements help let you know when you need to take medicine or other action.
    * Peak flow values of 50% to 80% of your best results are a sign of a moderate asthma attack. Numbers below 50% are a sign of a severe attack.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

There is no cure for asthma, although symptoms sometimes improve over time.
With proper self-management and medical treatment, most people with asthma can
lead a normal life.

## Possible Complications

The complications of asthma can be severe, and may include:

    * Death
    * Decreased ability to exercise and take part in other activities
    * Lack of sleep due to nighttime symptoms
    * Permanent changes in the function of the lungs
    * Persistent cough
    * Trouble breathing that requires breathing assistance (ventilator)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your provider if asthma symptoms develop.

Call your provider or go to the emergency room if:

    * An asthma attack requires more medicine than recommended
    * Symptoms get worse or do not improve with treatment
    * You have shortness of breath while talking
    * Your peak flow measurement is 50% to 80% of your personal best 

Go to the emergency room if these symptoms occur:

    * Drowsiness or confusion
    * Severe shortness of breath at rest
    * A peak flow measurement of less than 50% of your personal best
    * Severe chest pain
    * Bluish color to the lips and face
    * Extreme difficulty breathing
    * Rapid pulse
    * Severe anxiety due to shortness of breath 

## Prevention

You can reduce asthma symptoms by avoiding triggers and substances that
irritate the airways.

    * Cover bedding with allergy-proof casings to reduce exposure to dust mites.
    * Remove carpets from bedrooms and vacuum regularly.
    * Use only unscented detergents and cleaning materials in the home.
    * Keep humidity levels low and fix leaks to reduce the growth of organisms such as mold.
    * Keep the house clean and keep food in containers and out of bedrooms. This helps reduce the possibility of cockroaches. Body parts and droppings from cockroaches can trigger asthma attacks in some people.
    * If someone is allergic to an animal that cannot be removed from the home, the animal should be kept out of the bedroom. Place filtering material over the heating outlets to trap animal dander. Change the filter in furnaces and air conditioners often.
    * Eliminate tobacco smoke from the home. This is the single most important thing a family can do to help someone with asthma. Smoking outside the house is not enough. Family members and visitors who smoke outside carry smoke residue inside on their clothes and hair. This can trigger asthma symptoms. If you smoke, now is a good time to quit.
    * Avoid air pollution, industrial dust, and irritating fumes as much as possible. 

## Alternative Names

Bronchial asthma; Wheezing - asthma - adults

## Patient Instructions

    * Asthma and school
    * Asthma - control drugs
    * Asthma in adults - what to ask the doctor
    * Asthma - quick-relief drugs 
    * Exercise-induced asthma
    * Exercising and asthma at school 
    * How to use a nebulizer
    * How to use an inhaler - no spacer
    * How to use an inhaler - with spacer
    * How to use your peak flow meter
    * Make peak flow a habit
    * Signs of an asthma attack
    * Stay away from asthma triggers
    * Traveling with breathing problems

## Images

    * ![Lungs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1103t.jpg)Lungs
    * ![Spirometry](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1142t.jpg)Spirometry
    * ![Asthma](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19321t.jpg)Asthma
    * ![Peak flow meter](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19367t.jpg)Peak flow meter
    * ![Asthmatic bronchiole and normal bronchiole](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19375t.jpg)Asthmatic bronchiole and normal bronchiole
    * ![Common asthma triggers](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19381t.jpg)Common asthma triggers
    * ![Exercise-induced asthma](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19390t.jpg)Exercise-induced asthma
    * ![Respiratory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9248t.jpg)Respiratory system
    * ![Spacer use - Series - Part one](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19423t.jpg)Spacer use - Series
    * ![Metered dose inhaler use - Series - step one](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23707t.jpg)Metered dose inhaler use - Series
    * ![Nebulizer use - Series - Part one](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19409t.jpg)Nebulizer use - series
    * ![Peak flow meter use - Series - Part one](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19416t.jpg)Peak flow meter use - Series

## References

Brozek JL, Bousquet J, Agache I, et al. Allergic rhinitis and its impact on
asthma (ARIA) guidelines-2016 revision. _J Allergy Clin Immunol._
2017;140(4):950-958. PMID: 28602936 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28602936.

Liu AH, Spahn JD, Sicherer SH. Childhood asthma. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW,
Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics._
21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 169.

Lugogo N, Que LG, Gilstrap DL, Kraft M. Asthma: clinical diagnosis and
management. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and
Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine._ 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 42.

Nowak RM, Tokarski GF. Asthma. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M,
eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice._ 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 63.

## Review Date 2/19/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Internal review and
update on 03/28/2019 by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Asthma](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Asthma2_thumb.jpg)Asthma _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

