Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007263.htm    
                                Description: Avian influenza A viruses cause the flu infection in birds. The viruses that cause the disease in birds can change (mutate) so it can spread to humans.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Avian influenza

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007263.htm

# Avian influenza

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Avian influenza A viruses cause the flu infection in birds. The viruses that
cause the disease in birds can change (mutate) so it can spread to humans.

## Causes

The first avian influenza in humans was reported in Hong Kong in 1997. It was
called avian influenza (H5N1). The outbreak was linked to chickens.

Since then there have been human cases of avian influenza A in Asia, Africa,
Europe, Indonesia, Vietnam, the Pacific, and the Near East. Hundreds of people
have become sick with this virus. Up to half of the people who get this virus
die from the illness.

The chance of a worldwide outbreak in humans goes up the more the avian flu
virus spreads.

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reports 21 states with avian
flu in birds and no infections in humans as of August 2015.

    * Most of these infections have occurred in both backyard and commercial poultry flocks.
    * These recent HPAI H5 viruses have not infected any people in the United States, Canada, or internationally. The risk for infection in people is low. 

Your risk of getting the bird flu virus is higher if:

    * You work with poultry (such as farmers).
    * You travel to countries where the virus is present.
    * You touch an infected bird.
    * You go into a building with sick or dead birds, feces, or litter from infected birds.
    * You eat raw or undercooked poultry meat, eggs, or blood from infected birds. 

No one has gotten avian flu virus from eating properly cooked poultry or
poultry products.

Health care workers and people who live in the same house as people with bird
flu may also be at higher risk for infection.

Avian flu viruses can live in the environment for long periods of time.
Infection may be spread just by touching surfaces that have the virus on them.
Birds who were infected with the flu can give off the virus in their feces and
saliva for as long as 10 days.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of avian flu infection in humans depend on the strain of virus.

The avian influenza virus in humans causes typical flu-like symptoms, such as:

    * Cough
    * Diarrhea
    * Trouble breathing
    * Fever greater than 100.4Â°F (38Â°C)
    * Headache
    * General ill feeling (malaise)
    * Muscle aches
    * Runny nose
    * Sore throat 

## Exams and Tests

If you think you have been exposed to the virus, call your health care
provider before your office visit. This will give the staff a chance to take
steps to protect themselves and other people during your office visit.

There are tests for the avian flu, but they are not widely available. One type
of test can give results in about 4 hours.

Your provider might also do the following tests:

    * Listening to the lungs (to detect abnormal breath sounds)
    * Chest x-ray
    * Culture from the nose or throat
    * A method or technique to detect the virus, called RT-PCR
    * White blood cell count

Other tests may be done to look at how well your heart, kidneys, and liver are
working.

## Treatment

Treatment varies, and isÂ based on your symptoms.

In general, treatment with the antiviral medicine oseltamivir (Tamiflu) or
zanamivir (Relenza) may make the disease less severe. ForÂ the medicineÂ to
work, you need to start takingÂ it within 48 hours after your symptoms start.

Oseltamivir may also be prescribed for people who live in the same house
people with avian flu. This may prevent them from getting the illness.

The virus that causes human avian flu is resistant to the antiviral medicines
amantadine and rimantadine. These medicines should not be used in the case of
an H5N1 outbreak.

People with severe infection may need to be placed on a breathing machine.
People infected with the virus also should be kept separate from non-infected
people.

Providers recommend that people get an influenza (flu) shot. This may cut down
the chance that the avian flu virus will mix with a human flu virus. This
might create a new virus that may easily spread.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outlook depends on the type of avian flu virus and how bad the infection
is. The disease can be fatal.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Acute respiratory failure
    * Organ failure
    * Pneumonia
    * Sepsis

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you develop flu-like symptoms within 10 days of handling
infected birds or being in an area with a known avian flu outbreak.

## Prevention

There is an approved vaccine to protect humans from the H5N1avian flu virus.
This vaccine could be used if the current H5N1 virus starts spreading among
people. The US government keeps a stockpile of vaccine.

At this time, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) does not
recommend against travel to countries affected by avian influenza.

The CDC makes the following recommendations.

As a general precaution:

    * Avoid wild birds and watch them only from a distance.
    * Avoid touching sick birds and surfaces that may be covered in their feces.
    * Use protective clothing and special breathing masks if you work with birds or if you go into buildings with sick or dead birds, feces, or litter from infected birds.
    * If you have had contact with infected birds, watch for signs of infection. If you do become infected, tell your provider.
    * Avoid undercooked or uncooked meat. This reduces the risk for exposure to avian flu and other foodborne diseases. 

If traveling to other countries:

    * Avoid visits to live-bird markets and poultry farms.
    * Avoid preparing or eating undercooked poultry products.
    * See your provider if you become sick after you return from your trip. 

Current information regarding avian flu is available at:
www.cdc.gov/flu/avianflu/avian-in-humans.htm.

## Alternative Names

Bird flu; H5N1; H5N2; H5N8; H7N9; Avian influenza A (HPAI) H5

## Patient Instructions

    * Colds and the flu - what to ask your doctor - adult
    * Colds and the flu - what to ask your doctor - child

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Avian influenza A virus
infections in humans. www.cdc.gov/flu/avianflu/avian-in-humans.htm. Updated
April 18, 2017. Accessed October 5, 2017.

Hayden FG. Influenza. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 364.

Levin S, Singh K. Zoonoses. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 328.

## Review Date 10/8/2017

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bird Flu](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Birdflu_thumb.jpg)Bird Flu _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

