Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002119.htm    
                                Description: Low back pain refers to pain that you feel in your lower back. You may also have back stiffness, decreased movement of the lower back, and difficulty standing straight.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Taking care of your back at home

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002119.htm

# Taking care of your back at home

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Low back pain refers to pain that you feel in your lower back. You may also
have back stiffness, decreased movement of the lower back, and difficulty
standing straight.

There are many things you can do at home to help your back feel better and
prevent future back pain.

## Information

A common myth about back pain is that you need to rest and avoid activity for
a long time. In fact, doctors DO NOT recommend bed rest. If you have no sign
of a serious cause for your back pain (such as loss of bowel or bladder
control, weakness, weight loss, or fever), stay as active as possible.

Here are tips for how to handle back pain and activity:

    * Stop normal physical activity for only the first few days. This helps calm your symptoms and reduce swelling (inflammation) in the area of the pain.
    * Apply heat or ice to the painful area. Use ice for the first 48 to 72 hours, then use heat.
    * Take over-the-counter pain relievers such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB) or acetaminophen (Tylenol).
    * Sleep in a curled-up, fetal position with a pillow between your legs. If you usually sleep on your back, place a pillow or rolled towel under your knees to relieve pressure.
    * DO NOT do activities that involve heavy lifting or twisting of your back for the first 6 weeks after the pain begins.
    * DO NOT exercise in the days right after the pain begins. After 2 to 3 weeks, slowly begin to exercise again. A physical therapist can teach you which exercises are right for you. 

EXERCISE TO PREVENT FUTURE BACK PAIN

Through exercise you can:

    * Improve your posture
    * Strengthen your back and abdomen, and improve flexibility
    * Lose weight
    * Avoid falls

A complete exercise program should include aerobic activity such as walking,
swimming, or riding a stationary bicycle. It should also include stretching
and strength training. Follow the instructions of your doctor or physical
therapist.

Begin with light cardiovascular training. Walking, riding an upright
stationary bicycle (not the recumbent kind), and swimming are great examples.
These types of aerobic activities can help improve blood flow to your back and
promote healing. They also strengthen muscles in your stomach and back.

Stretching and strengthening exercises are important in the long run. Keep in
mind that starting these exercises too soon after an injury can make your pain
worse. Strengthening your abdominal muscles can ease the stress on your back.
A physical therapist can help you determine when to begin stretching and
strengthening exercises and how to do them.

Avoid these exercises during recovery, unless your doctor or physical
therapist says it is OK:

    * Jogging
    * Contact sports
    * Racquet sports
    * Golf
    * Dancing
    * Weight lifting
    * Leg lifts when lying on your stomach
    * Sit-ups 

TAKING MEASURES TO PREVENT FUTURE BACK PAIN

To prevent back pain, learn to lift and bend properly. Follow these tips:

    * If an object is too heavy or awkward, get help.
    * Spread your feet apart to give you a wide base of support.
    * Stand as close as possible to the object you are lifting.
    * Bend at your knees, not at your waist.
    * Tighten your stomach muscles as you lift or lower the object.
    * Hold the object as close to your body as you can.
    * Lift using your leg muscles.
    * As you stand up while holding the object, DO NOT bend forward. Try to keep your back straight.
    * DO NOT twist while you are bending to reach for the object, lifting it up, or carrying it. 

Other measures to prevent back pain include:

    * Avoid standing for long periods. If you must stand for your work, place a stool by your feet. Alternate resting each foot on the stool.
    * DO NOT wear high heels. Wear shoes that have cushioned soles when walking.
    * When sitting, especially if using a computer, make sure that your chair has a straight back with an adjustable seat and back, armrests, and a swivel seat.
    * Use a stool under your feet while sitting so that your knees are higher than your hips.
    * Place a small pillow or rolled towel behind your lower back while sitting or driving for long periods.
    * If you drive long-distance, stop and walk around every hour. DO NOT lift heavy objects just after a long ride.
    * Quit smoking.
    * Lose weight.
    * Do exercises to strengthen your abdominal muscles. This will strengthen your core to decrease the risk of further injuries.
    * Learn to relax. Try methods such as yoga, tai chi, or massage. 

## Alternative Names

Back strain treatment; Back pain - home care; Low back pain - home care;
Lumbar pain - home care; LBP - home care; Sciatic - home care

## Patient Instructions

    * Spine surgery - discharge

## Images

    * ![Treatment for strained back](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9094t.jpg)Treatment for strained back

## References

El Abd O, Amadera JED. Low back strain or sprain. In: Frontera WR, Silver JK,
Rizzo TD Jr, eds. _Essentials of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation_. 3rd
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 48.

Scholten P, Stanos SP, Rivers WE, Prather H, Press J. Physical medicine and
rehabilitation approaches to pain management. In: Benzon HT, Raja SN, Liu SS,
Fishman SM, Cohen SP, eds. _Essentials of Pain Management._ 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 58.

Yavin D, Hurlbert RJ. Nonsurgical and postsurgical management of low back
pain. In: Winn HR, ed. _Youmans and Winn Neurological Surgery_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 281.

## Review Date 6/28/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Back Pain](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BackPain_thumb.jpg)Back Pain _Read
more_

![Guide to Good
Posture](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GuidetoGoodPosture_Thumb.jpg)Guide to
Good Posture _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

