Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007493.htm    
                                Description: Back pain and sciatica are common health complaints. Almost everyone has back pain at some time in their life. Most of the time, the exact cause of the pain can    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

MRI and low back pain

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007493.htm

# MRI and low back pain

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Back pain and sciatica are common health complaints. Almost everyone has back
pain at some time in their life. Most of the time, the exact cause of the pain
can't be found.

An MRI scan is an imaging test that creates detailed pictures of the soft
tissue around the spine.

## Information

DANGER SIGNS AND BACK PAIN

Both you and your doctor may be worried that something serious is causing your
low back pain. Could your pain be caused by cancer or infection in your spine?
How does your doctor know for sure?

You will likely need an MRI right away if you have warning signs of a more
serious cause of back pain:

    * Cannot pass urine or stools
    * Cannot control your urine or stools
    * Difficulty with walking and balance
    * Back pain that is severe in children
    * Fever
    * History of cancer
    * Other signs or symptoms of cancer
    * Recent serious fall or injury
    * Back pain that is very severe, and not even pain pills from your doctor help
    * One leg feels numb or weak and it is getting worse 

If you have low back pain but none of the warning signs just mentioned, having
an MRI won't lead to better treatment, better pain relief, or a quicker return
to activities.

You and your doctor may want to wait before having an MRI. If the pain does
not get better or becomes worse, your doctor will likely order one.

Keep in mind that:

    * Most of the time, back and neck pain are not caused by a serious medical problem or injury.
    * Low back or neck pain often gets better on its own. 

An MRI scan creates detailed pictures of your spine. It can pick up most
injuries that you have had in your spine or changes that happen with aging.
Even small problems or changes that are not the cause of your current back
pain are picked up. These findings rarely change how your doctor first treats
you. But they can lead to:

    * Your doctor ordering more tests that you may not really need
    * Your worrying about your health and your back even more. If these worries cause you not to exercise, this may can cause your back to take longer to heal
    * Treatment that you don't need, especially for changes that occur naturally as you age

MRI SCAN RISKS

In rare cases, the contrast (dye) used with MRI scans can cause severe
allergic reactions or damage to your kidneys.

The strong magnetic fields created during an MRI can cause heart pacemakers
and other implants not to work as well. It can also cause a piece of metal
inside your body to move. Before having an MRI, tell the technologist about
any metal objects that you have in your body.

Pregnant women should not have MRI scans.

## Alternative Names

Backache - MRI; Low back pain - MRI; Lumbar pain - MRI; Back strain - MRI;
Lumbar radiculopathy - MRI; Herniated intervertebral disk - MRI; Prolapsed
intervertebral disk - MRI; Slipped disk - MRI; Ruptured disk - MRI; Herniated
nucleus pulposus - MRI; Spinal stenosis - MRI; Degenerative spine disease -
MRI

## References

Maus TP. Radiologic assessment of the patient with spine pain. In: Benzon HT,
Rathmell JP, Wu CL, Turk DC, Argoff CE, Hurley RW, eds. _Practical Management
of Pain_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Mosby; 2014:chap 15.

Mazur MD, Shah LM, Schmidt MH. Assessment of spinal imaging. In: Winn HR, ed.
_Youmans and Winn Neurological Surgery_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 274.

## Review Date 9/7/2017

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Back Pain](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BackPain_thumb.jpg)Back Pain _Read
more_

![MRI Scans](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MRIScans_thumb.jpg)MRI Scans _Read
more_

![Sciatica](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Sciatica2_thumb.jpg)Sciatica _Read
more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

