Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000517.htm    
                                Description: To help prevent reinjuring your back at work, or hurting it in the first place, follow the tips below. Learn how to lift the right way and make changes at work, if needed.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Back pain - returning to work

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000517.htm

# Back pain - returning to work

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

To help prevent reinjuring your back at work, or hurting it in the first
place, follow the tips below. Learn how to lift the right way and make changes
at work, if needed.

## Tips to Help Prevent Back Pain When You Return to Work

Exercise helps to prevent future back pain:

    * Exercise a little every day. Walking is a good way to keep your heart healthy and your muscles strong. If walking is too hard for you, work with a physical therapist to develop an exercise plan that you can do.
    * Keep doing the exercises you have been shown to strengthen your core muscles, which support your back. A stronger core helps lower your risk for further back injuries. 

If you are overweight, ask your health care provider about ways you can lose
some weight. Carrying around extra weight adds stress to your back no matter
what kind of work you do.

Long car rides and getting in and out of the car can be hard on your back. If
you have a long commute to work, consider some of these changes:

    * Adjust your car seat to make it easier to enter, sit in, and get out of your car. Bring your seat as far forward as possible to avoid bending forward when you are driving.
    * If you drive long distances, stop and walk around every hour.
    * DO NOT lift heavy objects right after a long car ride. 

## Learn How to Lift

Know how much you can safely lift. Think about how much you have lifted in the
past and how easy or hard that was. If an object seems too heavy or awkward,
get help to move or lift it.

If your work requires you to do lifting that may not be safe for your back,
talk with your boss. Try to find out the most weight you should have to lift.
You may need to meet with a physical therapist or occupational therapist to
learn how to safely lift this amount of weight.

Follow these steps when you bend and lift to help prevent back pain and
injury:

    * Spread your feet apart to give your body a wide base of support.
    * Stand as close as possible to the object you are lifting.
    * Bend at your knees, not at your waist.
    * Tighten your stomach muscles as you lift the object up or lower it down.
    * Hold the object as close to your body as you can.
    * Lift slowly, using the muscles in your hips and knees.
    * As you stand up with the object, DO NOT bend forward.
    * DO NOT twist your back while you bend to reach the object, lift the object up, or carry the object.
    * Squat as you set the object down, using the muscles in your knees and hips.

Some providers recommend using a back brace to help support the spine. A brace
may help prevent injuries for workers who have to lift heavy objects. But,
using a brace too much can weaken the core muscles that support your back,
making back pain problems worse.

## Changes at Work

If your back pain is worse at work, it may be that your work station is not
set up correctly.

    * If you sit at a computer at work, make sure that your chair has a straight back with an adjustable seat and back, armrests, and a swivel seat.
    * Ask about having a trained therapist assess your workspace or movements to see if changes, such as a new chair or a cushioned mat under your feet, would help.
    * Get up and move around during the workday. If you are able, take a 10 to 15 minute walk in the morning before work and at lunchtime.

If your work involves physical activity, review the needed motions and
activities with your physical therapist. Your therapist may be able to suggest
helpful changes. Also, ask about exercises or stretches for the muscles you
use most during work.

Avoid standing for long periods. If you must stand at work, try resting one
foot on a stool, then the other foot. Keep switching off during the day.

Take medicines as needed. Let your boss or supervisor know if you need to take
medicines that make you sleepy, such as narcotic pain relievers and muscle
relaxant medicines.

## Alternative Names

Nonspecific back pain - work; Backache - work; Lumbar pain - work; Pain - back
- chronic; Low back pain - work; Lumbago - work

## References

Barr KP, Concannon LG, Harrast MA. Low back pain. In: Cifu DX, ed. _Braddom's
Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 33.

Kuijer PP, Verbeek JH, Visser B, et al. An evidence-based multidisciplinary
practice guideline to reduce the workload due to lifting for preventing work-
related low back pain. _Ann Occup Environ Med_. 2014;26:16. PMID: 24999432
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24999432.

Will JS, Bury DC, Miller JA. Mechanical low back pain. _Am Fam Physician_.
2018;98(7):421-428. PMID: 30252425 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30252425.

## Review Date 10/8/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Back Injuries
    * Back Pain
    * Occupational Health

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

