Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000519.htm    
                                Description: Getting plenty of exercise and playing sports is good for overall health. It also adds pleasure and a sense of well-being.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Back pain and sports

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000519.htm

# Back pain and sports

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Getting plenty of exercise and playing sports is good for overall health. It
also adds pleasure and a sense of well-being.

Almost any sport places some stress on your spine. That is why it's important
to keep the muscles and ligaments that support your spine flexible and strong.
A healthy spine can help prevent many sports injuries.

Getting these muscles to the point where they support your spine well is
called core strengthening. Ask your health care provider or physical therapist
about these strengthening exercises.

If you had a back injury, talk with your provider about keeping your back safe
when you return to sports.

## Bicycling

Although bicycling strengthens the muscles of your legs, it does not do much
for the muscles around your spine. Bending your lower spine forward while
arching your upper back for long periods can strain your back and neck
muscles. Mountain biking on uneven surfaces can cause jarring and sudden
compressions (squeezing) on the spine.

Tips to help make bicycling easier on your back include:

    * Avoid mountain biking.
    * Ride a bike that fits you properly. Staff at a good bike shop can help you get fitted.
    * Remember not only to push down on the pedals, but also to pull up on them.
    * Wear biking gloves and use a handlebar cover to reduce jarring in your upper body.
    * Put shock absorbers on the front wheel.
    * A more upright bike can have less pressure on your lower back and neck.
    * Recumbent bikes place less stress on your back and neck. 

The muscles that bring your leg up toward your abdomen are called flexors.
They are used a lot when you ride a bicycle. Keeping these muscles stretched
out is important because it will help keep the proper balance in the muscles
around your spine and hips.

## Weightlifting

Weightlifting can put a lot of stress on the spine. This is particularly true
for people who are middle-aged and older because their spinal disks may dry
out and become thinner and more brittle with age. Disks are the "cushions"
between the bones (vertebrae) of your spine.

Along with muscle and ligament injuries, weightlifters are also at risk for a
type of stress fracture in the back called spondylolysis.

To prevent injuries when weightlifting:

    * Do some aerobic exercise and stretch well before lifting to warm up your muscles.
    * Use training machines rather than free weights. These machines place less stress on your spine and do not require a spotter. Training machines are also easier to learn how to use compared to free weights.
    * Do more repetitions instead of adding more weight when you are trying to build strength.
    * Lift only as much as you can safely lift. DO NOT add too much weight.
    * Learn the proper lifting techniques from someone who is well trained. Technique is important.
    * Avoid certain weightlifting exercises that are more stressful on your spine. Some of these are squats, clean-and-jerks, snatches, and deadlifts.
    * Ask your provider or trainer whether a weightlifting belt would be helpful for you.

## Golf

The golf swing requires forceful rotation of your spine, and this puts stress
on your spinal muscles, ligaments, joints, and disks.

Tips to take the stress off your back include:

    * Ask your physical therapist about the best posture and technique for your swing.
    * Warm up and stretch your muscles in your back and upper legs before starting a round.
    * Bend with your knees when picking up the golf ball.
    * On the course, use a push cart (trolley) to wheel your golf bag. You can also drive a golf cart.

## Running

The disks and the small joints in the back are called facet joints. Running
causes repeated jarring and compression on these areas of your lumbar spine.

Tips to help reduce the stress on your spine include:

    * Avoid running on concrete and uneven surfaces. Instead run on a padded track or soft, even grassy surfaces.
    * Wear high-quality running shoes with good cushioning. Replace them when they become worn.
    * Ask your physical therapist about the best running form and motion. Most experts suggest a forward motion, leading with your chest and keeping your head balanced over your chest.
    * Before taking off on a longer run, warm up and stretch the muscles in your legs and lower back. Learn exercises that strengthen the core muscles deep inside your abdomen and pelvis that support your spine. 

## Tennis

Motions that place stress on your spine while playing tennis include
overextending (arching) your back when serving, constant stopping and starting
motions, and forceful twisting of your spine when taking shots.

A tennis coach or your physical therapist can show you different techniques
that can help reduce the stress on your back. For example:

    * Bend your knees.
    * Keeping your abdominal muscles tighter will reduce stress on your spine. Ask about the best ways to serve to avoid overextending your lower back.

Before playing, always warm up and stretch the muscles in your legs and lower
back. Learn exercises that strengthen the core muscles deep inside your
abdomen and pelvis, which support your spine.

## Skiing

Before skiing again after a back injury, learn exercises that strengthen the
core muscles deep inside your spine and pelvis. A physical therapist may also
help you to build strength and flexibility in the muscles that you use when
you twist and turn while skiing.

Before you start skiing, warm up and stretch the muscles in your legs and
lower back. Make sure you only ski down slopes that match your skill level.

## Swimming

Although swimming can strengthen the muscles and ligaments in your spine and
legs, it can also stress your spine by:

    * Keeping your lower back extended (arched) when doing strokes on your stomach, such as the crawl or the breaststroke
    * Turning your neck back every time you take a breath 

Swimming on your side or back can avoid these movements. Using a snorkel and
mask may help decrease the neck turning when you breathe.

Proper technique when swimming is also important. This includes keeping your
body level in the water, tightening your abdominal muscles somewhat, and
keeping your head on the surface of the water and not holding it in a lifted
position.

## Alternative Names

Bicycling - back pain; Golf - back pain; Tennis - back pain; Running - back
pain; Weightlifting - back pain; Lumbar pain - sports; Sciatica - sports; Low
back pain - sports

## References

Bahr R, Shimer A, Onate J, Kaminski TW. Injury prevention. In: Miller MD,
Thompson SR, eds. _DeLee & Drez's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 41.

Lauerman W, Russo M. Thoracolumbar spine disorders in the adult. In: Miller
MD, Thompson SR, eds. _DeLee & Drez's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 128.

Reider BC, Davies GJ, Provencher MT. Lumbar spine strains and sprains. In:
Reider BC, Davies GJ, Provencher MT, eds. _Orthopaedic Rehabilitation of the
Athlete_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 18.

Rothmier JD, Harmon KG, O'Kane JW. Sports medicine. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP,
eds. _Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 29.

## Review Date 8/4/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Back Injuries
    * Back Pain
    * Sports Injuries
    * Sports Safety

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

