Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000518.htm    
                                Description: You may play sports rarely, on a regular basis, or at a competitive level. No matter how involved you are, consider these questions before returning to any sport after a back injury:    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Returning to sports after a back injury

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000518.htm

# Returning to sports after a back injury

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You may play sports rarely, on a regular basis, or at a competitive level. No
matter how involved you are, consider these questions before returning to any
sport after a back injury:

    * Do you want to still play the sport, even though it stresses your back?
    * If you continue with the sport, will you continue at the same level or play at a less intense level?
    * When did your back injury occur? How severe was the injury? Did you need surgery?
    * Have you talked about wanting to return to the sport with your doctor, physical therapist, or other health care providers?
    * Have you been doing exercises to strengthen and stretch the muscles that support your back?
    * Are you still in good shape?
    * Are you pain free when you do the movements your sport requires?
    * Have you regained all or most of the range of motion in your spine?

## Alternative names

Back injury - returning to sports; Sciatica - returning to sports; Herniated
disc - returning to sports; Herniated disk - returning to sports; Spinal
stenosis - returning to sports; Back pain - returning to sports

## Which Type of Sport is Best?

In deciding when and if to return to a sport after having low back pain, the
amount of stress that any sport places on your spine is an important factor to
consider. If you would like to return to a more intense sport or a contact
sport, talk to your provider and physical therapist about whether you can do
this safely. Contact sports or more intense sports may not be a good choice
for you if you:

    * Have had surgery on more than one level of your spine, such as spinal fusion
    * Have more severe spine disease in the area where the middle of the spine and the lower spine join
    * Have had repeated injury or surgery in the same area of your spine
    * Have had back injuries that resulted in muscle weakness or nerve injury 

Doing any activity over too long a period can cause injury. Activities that
involve contact, heavy or repetitive lifting, or twisting (such as when moving
or at high speed) can also cause injury.

## When to Return to a Sport

These are some general tips about when to return to sports and conditioning.
It may be safe to return to your sport when you have:

    * No pain or only mild pain
    * Normal or almost normal range of motion without pain
    * Regained enough strength in the muscles related to your sport
    * Regained the endurance you need for your sport 

The type of back injury or problem you are recovering from is a factor for
deciding when you can return to your sport. These are general guidelines:

    * After a back sprain or strain, you should be able to start to return to your sport within a few days to several weeks if you don't have any more symptoms.
    * After a slipped disk in one area of your spine, with or without having a surgery called diskectomy, most people recover in 1 to 6 months. You must do exercises to strengthen the muscles that surround your spine and hip for a safe return to sports. Many people are able to return to a competitive level of sports.
    * After having disk and other problems in your spine. You should be under the care of a provider or physical therapist. You should take even more care after surgeries that involve fusing bones of your spine together. 

## Making Muscles and Ligaments Stronger and More Flexible

Large muscles of your abdomen, upper legs, and buttocks attach to your spine
and pelvic bones. They help stabilize and protect your spine during activity
and sports. Weakness in these muscles may be part of the reason you first
injured your back. After resting and treating your symptoms after your injury,
these muscles will most likely be even weaker and less flexible.

Getting these muscles back to the point where they support your spine well is
called core strengthening. Your provider and physical therapist will teach you
exercises to strengthen these muscles. It is important to do these exercises
correctly to prevent further injury and strengthen your back.

Once you are ready to return to your sport:

    * Warm up with an easy movement such as walking. This will help increase blood flow to the muscles and ligaments in your back.
    * Stretch the muscles in your upper and lower back and your hamstrings (large muscles in the back of your thighs) and quadriceps (large muscles in the front of your thighs). 

When you are ready to begin the movements and actions involved in your sport,
start slowly. Before going full force, take part in the sport at a less
intense level. See how you feel that night and the next day before you slowly
increase the force and intensity of your movements.

## References

Lauerman W, Russo M. Thoracolumbar spine disorders in the adult. In: Miller
MD, Thompson SR, eds. _DeLee & Drez's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 128.

Reider BC, Davies GJ, Provencher MT. Lumbar spine strains and sprains. In:
Reider BC, Davies GJ, Provencher MT, eds. _Orthopaedic Rehabilitation of the
Athlete_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 18.

## Review Date 8/4/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Back Injuries
    * Back Pain
    * Sports Injuries
    * Sports Safety

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

