Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007560.htm    
                                Description: Spinal cord stimulation is a treatment for pain that uses a mild electric current to block nerve impulses in the spine.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Spinal cord stimulation

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007560.htm

# Spinal cord stimulation

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Spinal cord stimulation is a treatment for pain that uses a mild electric
current to block nerve impulses in the spine.

## Description

A trial electrode will be put in first to see if it helps your pain.

    * Your skin will be numbed with a local anesthetic.
    * Wires (leads) will be placed under your skin and stretched into the space on top of your spinal cord.
    * These wires will be connected to a small current generator outside of your body that you carry like a cell phone.
    * The procedure takes about 1 hour. You will be able to go home after the leads are placed. 

If the treatment greatly reduces your pain, you will be offered a permanent
generator. The generator will be implanted a few weeks later.

    * You will be asleep and pain-free with general anesthesia.
    * The generator will be inserted under the skin of your abdomen or buttocks through a small surgical cut.
    * The procedure takes about 30 to 45 minutes. 

The generator runs on batteries. Some batteries are rechargeable. Others last
2 to 5 years. You will need another surgery to replace the battery.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Your doctor may recommend this procedure if you have:

    * Back pain that continues or gets worse, even after surgery to correct it
    * Complex regional pain syndrome (CRPS)
    * Long-term (chronic) back pain, with or without arm or leg pain
    * Nerve pain or numbness in the arms or legs
    * Swelling (inflammation) of the lining of the brain and spinal cord

SCS is used after you have tried other treatments such as medicines and
exercise and they have not worked.

## Risks

Risks of this surgery include any of the following:

    * Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) leakage and spinal headaches
    * Damage to the nerves that come out of the spine, causing paralysis, weakness, or pain that does not go away
    * Infection of the battery or electrode site (if this occurs, the hardware usually needs to be removed)
    * Movement of or damage to the generator or leads that requires more surgery
    * Pain after surgery
    * Problems with how the stimulator works, such as sending too strong of a signal, stopping and starting, or sending a weak signal
    * The stimulator may not work 
    * Collection of blood or fluid between the covering of the brain (dura) and the surface of the brain

The SCS device may interfere with other devices, such as pacemakers and
defibrillators. After the SCS is implanted, you may not be able to get an MRI
anymore. Discuss this with your health care provider.

## Before the Procedure

Tell the provider who will be doing the procedure what medicines you are
taking. These include medicines and supplements you bought without a
prescription.

During the days before the surgery:

    * Prepare your home for when you come back from the hospital.
    * If you are a smoker, you need to stop smoking. Your recovery will be slower and possibly not as good if you keep smoking. Ask your provider for help quitting.
    * One week before surgery, you may be asked to stop taking blood thinners. These are medicines that make it harder for your blood to clot. They include aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn).
    * If you have diabetes, heart disease, or other medical problems, your provider will ask you to see the doctors who treat you for these problems.
    * Talk with your provider if you have been drinking a lot of alcohol.
    * Ask your provider which medicines you should still take on the day of the surgery. 

On the day of the surgery:

    * Follow instructions about not eating or drinking anything before the procedure. Take the medicines your surgeon told you to take with a small sip of water.
    * Bring your cane, walker, or wheelchair if you have one already. Also bring shoes with flat, nonskid soles. 

## After the Procedure

After the permanent generator is placed, the surgical cut will be closed and
covered with a dressing. You will be taken to the recovery room to wake up
from the anesthesia.

Most people can go home the same day, but your surgeon may want you to stay
overnight in the hospital. You will be taught how to care for your surgical
site.

You should avoid heavy lifting, bending, and twisting while you are healing.
Light exercise such as walking can be helpful during recovery.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

After the procedure you may have less back pain and will not need to take as
much pain medicines. But, the treatment does not cure back pain or treat the
source of the pain.

## Alternative Names

Neurostimulator; SCS; Neuromodulation; Dorsal column stimulation; Chronic back
pain - spinal stimulation; Complex regional pain - spinal stimulation; CRPS -
spinal stimulation; Failed back surgery - spinal stimulation

## References

Bahuleyan B, Fernandes de Oliveira TH, Machado AG. Chronic pain, failed back
surgery syndrome, and management. In: Steinmetz MP, Benzel EC, eds. _Benzel's
Spine Surgery_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 177.

Dinakar P. Principles of pain management. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta
JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 54.

Sagher O, Levin EL. Spinal cord stimulation. In: Winn HR, ed. _Youmans and
Winn Neurological Surgery_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 178.

## Review Date 4/9/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Back Pain](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BackPain_thumb.jpg)Back Pain _Read
more_

![Complex Regional Pain
Syndrome](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ComplexRegionalPainSyndrome_thumb.jpg)Complex
Regional Pain Syndrome _Read more_

![Spinal
Cord](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SpinalCordDiseases_thumb.jpg)Spinal Cord
Injuries _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

