Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007425.htm    
                                Description: Low back pain refers to pain that you feel in your lower back. You may also have back stiffness, decreased movement of the lower back, and difficulty standing straight.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Low back pain - acute

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007425.htm

# Low back pain - acute

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Low back pain refers to pain that you feel in your lower back. You may also
have back stiffness, decreased movement of the lower back, and difficulty
standing straight.

Acute back pain can last for a few days to a few weeks.

## Causes

Most people have at least one backache in their life. Although this pain or
discomfort can happen anywhere in your back, the most common area affected is
your lower back. This is because the lower back supports most of your body's
weight.

Low back pain is the number two reason that Americans see their health care
provider. It is second only to colds and flu.

You will usually first feel back pain just after you lift a heavy object, move
suddenly, sit in one position for a long time, or have an injury or accident.

Acute low back pain is most often caused by a sudden injury to the muscles and
ligaments supporting the back. The pain may be caused by muscle spasms or a
strain or tear in the muscles and ligaments.

Causes of sudden low back pain include:

    * Compression fractures to the spine from osteoporosis
    * Cancer involving the spine
    * Fracture of the spinal cord
    * Muscle spasm (very tense muscles)
    * Ruptured or herniated disk
    * Sciatica
    * Spinal stenosis (narrowing of the spinal canal)
    * Spine curvatures (like scoliosis or kyphosis), which may be inherited and seen in children or teens
    * Strain or tears to the muscles or ligaments supporting the back 

Low back pain may also be due to:

    * An abdominal aortic aneurysm that is leaking
    * Arthritis conditions, such as osteoarthritis, psoriatic arthritis, and rheumatoid arthritis
    * Infection of the spine (osteomyelitis, diskitis, abscess)
    * Kidney infection or kidney stones
    * Problems related to pregnancy
    * Medical conditions that affect the female reproductive organs, including endometriosis, ovarian cysts, ovarian cancer, or uterine fibroids
    * Â Pain around the back of your pelvis, or sacroiliac (SI) joint.

## Symptoms

You may feel a variety of symptoms if you have hurt your back. You may have a
tingling or burning sensation, a dull achy feeling, or sharp pain. The pain
may be mild, or it can be so severe that you are unable to move.

Depending on the cause of your back pain, you may also have pain in your leg,
hip, or the bottom of your foot. You may also have weakness in your legs and
feet.

## Exams and Tests

When you first see your provider, you will be asked about your back pain,
including how often it happens and how severe it is.

Your provider will try to determine the cause of your back pain and whether it
is likely to quickly get better with simple measures such as ice, mild
painkillers, physical therapy, and proper exercises. Most of the time, back
pain will get better using these methods.

During the physical exam, your provider will try to pinpoint the location of
the pain and figure out how it affects your movement.

Most people with back pain improve or recover within 4 to 6 weeks. Your
provider may not order any tests during the first visit unless you have
certain symptoms.

Tests that might be ordered include:

    * X-ray
    * CT scan of the lower spine
    * MRI of the lower spine

## Treatment

To get better quickly, take the right measures when you first feel pain.

Here are some tips for how to handle pain:

    * Stop normal physical activity for the first few days. This will help relieve your symptoms and reduce any swelling in the area of the pain.
    * Apply heat or ice to the painful area. One good method is to use ice for the first 48 to 72 hours, and then use heat.
    * Take over-the-counter pain relievers such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) or acetaminophen (Tylenol). Follow package instructions on how much to take. Do not take more than the recommended amount. 

While sleeping, try lying in a curled-up, fetal position with a pillow between
your legs. If you usually sleep on your back, place a pillow or rolled towel
under your knees to relieve pressure.

A common misbelief about back pain is that you need to rest and avoid activity
for a long time. In fact, bed rest is not recommended. If you have no sign of
a serious cause for your back pain (such as loss of bowel or bladder control,
weakness, weight loss, or fever), then you should stay as active as possible.

You may want to reduce your activity only for the first couple of days. Then,
slowly start your usual activities after that. Do not perform activities that
involve heavy lifting or twisting of your back for the first 6 weeks after the
pain begins. After 2 to 3 weeks, you should gradually start exercising again.

    * Begin with light aerobic activity. Walking, riding a stationary bicycle, and swimming are great examples. These activities can improve blood flow to your back and promote healing. They also strengthen muscles in your stomach and back.
    * You may benefit from physical therapy. Your provider will determine whether you need to see a physical therapist and can refer you to one. The physical therapist will first use methods to reduce your pain. Then, the therapist will teach you ways to prevent getting back pain again.
    * Stretching and strengthening exercises are important. But, starting these exercises too soon after an injury can make your pain worse. A physical therapist can tell you when to begin stretching and strengthening exercises and how to do them. 

If your pain lasts longer than 1 month, your primary provider may send you to
see either an orthopedist (bone specialist) or neurologist (nerve specialist).

If your pain has not improved after use of medicines, physical therapy, and
other treatments, your provider may recommend an epidural injection.

You may also see:

    * A massage therapist
    * Someone who performs acupuncture
    * Someone who does spinal manipulation (a chiropractor, osteopathic doctor, or physical therapist) 

Sometimes, a few visits to these specialists will help back pain.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Many people feel better within 1 week. After another 4 to 6 weeks, the back
pain should be completely gone.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider right away if you have:

    * Back pain after a severe blow or fall
    * Burning with urination or blood in your urine
    * History of cancer
    * Loss of control over urine or stool (incontinence)
    * Pain traveling down your legs below the knee
    * Pain that is worse when you lie down or pain that wakes you up at night
    * Redness or swelling on the back or spine
    * Severe pain that does not allow you to get comfortable
    * Unexplained fever with back pain
    * Weakness or numbness in your buttocks, thigh, leg, or pelvis 

Also call if:

    * You have been losing weight unintentionally
    * You use steroids or intravenous drugs
    * You have had back pain before, but this episode is different and feels worse
    * This episode of back pain has lasted longer than 4 weeks

## Prevention

There are many things you can do to lower your chances of getting back pain.
Exercise is important for preventing back pain. Through exercise you can:

    * Improve your posture
    * Strengthen your back and improve flexibility
    * Lose weight
    * Avoid falls 

It is also very important to learn to lift and bend properly. Follow these
tips:

    * If an object is too heavy or awkward, get help.
    * Spread your feet apart to give your body a wide base of support when lifting.
    * Stand as close as possible to the object you are lifting.
    * Bend at your knees, not at your waist.
    * Tighten your stomach muscles as you lift the object or lower it down.
    * Hold the object as close to your body as you can.
    * Lift using your leg muscles.
    * As you stand up with the object, do not bend forward.
    * Do not twist while you are bending down for the object, lifting it up, or carrying it. 

Other measures to prevent back pain include:

    * Avoid standing for long periods. If you must stand for your work, alternate resting each foot on a stool.
    * Do not wear high heels. Use cushioned soles when walking.
    * When sitting for work, especially if you are using a computer, make sure your chair has a straight back with an adjustable seat and back, armrests, and a swivel seat.
    * Use a stool under your feet while sitting so that your knees are higher than your hips.
    * Place a small pillow or rolled towel behind your lower back while sitting or driving for long periods.
    * If you drive a long distance, stop and walk around every hour. Bring your seat as far forward as possible to avoid bending. Do not lift heavy objects just after a ride.
    * Quit smoking.
    * Lose weight.
    * Do exercises on a regular basis to strengthen your abdominal and core muscles. This will strengthen your core to decrease the risk for further injuries.
    * Learn to relax. Try methods such as yoga, tai chi, or massage.

## Alternative Names

Backache; Low back pain; Lumbar pain; Pain - back; Acute back pain; Back pain
- new; Back pain - short-term; Back strain - new

## Patient Instructions

    * Spine surgery - discharge

## Images

    * ![Lumbar vertebrae](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9538t.jpg)Lumbar vertebrae
    * ![Backaches](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9093t.jpg)Backaches

## References

Corwell BN. Back pain. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds.
_Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 32.

El Abd OH, Amadera JED. Low back strain or sprain. In: Frontera WR, Silver JK,
Rizzo TD Jr, eds. _Essentials of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation:
Musculoskeletal Disorders, Pain, and Rehabilitation_. 4th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 48.

Grabowski G, Gilbert TM, Larson EP, Cornett CA. Degenerative conditions of the
cervical and thoracolumbar spine. In: Miller MD, Thompson SR, eds. _DeLee,
Drez, & Millerâs Orthopaedic Sports Medicine._ 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2020:chap 130.

Malik K, Benzon HT. Low back pain. In: Benzon HT, Rathmell JP, Wu CL, Turk DC,
Argoff CE, Hurley RW, eds. _Practical Management of Pain_. 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Mosby; 2014:chap 21.

Misulis KE, Murray EL. Lower back and lower limb pain. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic
J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_.
7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 32.

## Review Date 3/20/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Internal
review and update on 03/28/2019 by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Back Pain](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BackPain_thumb.jpg)Back Pain _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

