Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000415.htm    
                                Description: Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) can help many people deal with chronic pain.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cognitive behavioral therapy for back pain

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000415.htm

# Cognitive behavioral therapy for back pain

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) can help many people deal with chronic
pain.

## What is CBT?

CBT is a form of psychological therapy. It most often involves 10 to 20
meetings with a therapist. Focusing on your thoughts makes up the cognitive
part of CBT. Focusing on your actions are the behavioral part.

First, your therapist helps you recognize the negative feelings and thoughts
that occur when you have back pain. Then your therapist teaches you how to
change those into helpful thoughts and healthy actions. Changing your thoughts
from negative to positive can help you manage your pain.

## How Does CBT Work?

It is believed that changing your thoughts about pain can change how your body
responds to pain.

You may not be able to stop physical pain from happening. But, with practice,
you can control how your mind manages the pain. An example is changing a
negative thought, such as "I cannot do anything anymore," to a more positive
thought, such as "I dealt with this before and I can do it again."

A therapist using CBT will help you learn to:

    * Identify negative thoughts
    * Stop negative thoughts
    * Practice using positive thoughts
    * Develop healthy thinking 

Healthy thinking involves positive thoughts and calming your mind and body by
using techniques such as yoga, massage, or imagery. Healthy thinking makes you
feel better, and feeling better reduces pain.

CBT can also teach you to become more active. This is important because
regular, low-impact exercise, such as walking and swimming, can help reduce
and prevent back pain over the long run.

For CBT to help reduce pain, your treatment goals need to be realistic and
your treatment should be done in steps. For example, your goals may be to see
friends more and start exercising. It is realistic to see one or two friends
at first and take short walks, maybe just down the block. It is not realistic
to reconnect with all of your friends all at once and walk 3 miles (5
kilometers) at once on your first outing. Exercise can help you to deal with
chronic pain issues.

## Getting Started

Ask your health care provider for the names of a few therapists and see which
ones are covered by your insurance.

Contact 2 to 3 of the therapists and interview them on the phone. Ask them
about their experience with using CBT to manage chronic back pain. If you do
not like the first therapist you speak to or see, try someone else.

## Alternative Names

Nonspecific back pain - cognitive behavioral; Backache - chronic - cognitive
behavioral; Lumbar pain - chronic - cognitive behavioral; Pain - back -
chronic - cognitive behavioral; Chronic back pain - low - cognitive behavioral

## Images

    * ![Backaches](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9093t.jpg)Backaches

## References

Cohen SP, Raja SN. Pain. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2020:chap 27.

Davin S, Jimenez XF, Covington EC, Scheman J. Psychological strategies for
chronic pain. In: Garfin SR, Eismont FJ, Bell GR, Fischgrund JS, Bono CM, eds.
_Rothman-Simeone and Herkowitz's The Spine_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 108.

Narayan S, Dubin A. Integrated approaches to pain management. In: Argoff CE,
Dubin A, Pilitsis JG, eds. _Pain Management Secrets_. 4th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 50.

Turk DC. Psychosocial aspects of chronic pain. In: Benzon HT, Rathmell JP, Wu
CL, Turk DC, Argoff CE, Hurley RW, eds. _Practical Management of Pain_. 5th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Mosby; 2014:chap 12.

## Review Date 7/7/2019

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Back Pain
    * Non-Drug Pain Management

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

