Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000610.htm    
                                Description: The sacroiliac joint (SIJ) is a term used to describe the place where the sacrum and the iliac bones join.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Sacroiliac joint pain - aftercare

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000610.htm

# Sacroiliac joint pain - aftercare

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The sacroiliac joint (SIJ) is a term used to describe the place where the
sacrum and the iliac bones join.

    * The sacrum is located at the base of your spine. It is made up of 5 vertebrae, or backbones, that are fused together.
    * The iliac bones are the two large bones that make up your pelvis. The sacrum sits in the middle of the iliac bones.

## More About Your Problem

The main purpose of the SIJ is to connect the spine and the pelvis. As a
result, there is very little movement at this joint.

Major reasons for pain around the SIJ include:

    * Pregnancy. The pelvis widens to prepare for birth, stretching the ligaments (strong, flexible tissue that connects bone to bone).
    * Different types of arthritis.
    * Difference in leg lengths.
    * Wearing away of the cartilage (cushion) between the bones.
    * Trauma from impact, such as landing hard on the buttocks.
    * History of pelvic fractures or injuries.
    * Muscle tightness. 

Although SIJ pain can be caused by trauma, this type of injury more often
develops over a long period.

## What to Expect

Symptoms of SIJ dysfunction include:

    * Pain in the lower back, usually only on one side
    * Hip pain
    * Discomfort with bending over or standing after sitting for long periods
    * Improvement in pain when lying down 

To help diagnose an SIJ problem, your health care provider may move your legs
and hips around in different positions. You may also need to have x-rays or a
CT scan.

## Symptom Relief

Your provider may recommend these steps for the first few days or weeks after
your injury or when starting treatment for SIJ pain:

    * Rest. Keep activity to a minimum and stop movements or activity that worsen the pain.
    * Ice your lower back or upper buttocks for about 20 minutes 2 to 3 times a day. DO NOT apply ice directly to the skin.
    * Use a heating pad on the low setting to help loosen tight muscles and relieve soreness.
    * Massage the muscles in the lower back, buttocks, and thigh.
    * Take pain medicines as instructed. 

For pain, you can use ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn),
or acetaminophen (Tylenol). You can buy these medicines at the store without a
prescription.

    * Talk with your provider before using these medicines if you have heart disease, high blood pressure, kidney disease, or have had stomach ulcers or internal bleeding in the past.
    * DO NOT take more than the amount recommended on the bottle or by your provider. 

If this is a chronic problem, your provider may prescribe an injection to help
with pain and inflammation. The injection can be repeated over time if needed.

## Activity

Keep activity to a minimum. The more time the injury has rest, the better. For
support during activity, you can use a sacroiliac belt or lumbar brace.

Physical therapy is an important part of the healing process. It will help
relieve pain and increase strength. Talk to your doctor or physical therapist
for exercises to practice.

Here is an example of an exercise for your lower back:

    * Lie flat on your back with your knees bent and feet flat on the ground.
    * Slowly, begin to rotate your knees to the right side of your body. Stop when you feel pain or discomfort.
    * Slowly rotate back toward the left side of your body until you feel pain.
    * Rest in the starting position.
    * Repeat 10 times. 

The best way to get rid of SIJ pain is to stick to a care plan. The more you
rest, ice, and do exercises, the quicker your symptoms will improve or your
injury will heal.

## Follow-up

Your provider may need to follow up if the pain is not going away as expected.
You may need:

    * X-rays or imaging tests such as a CT or MRI
    * Blood tests to help diagnose the cause

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if you have any of the following:

    * Sudden numbness or tingling in your lower back and hips
    * Weakness or numbness in your legs
    * Have problems controlling of your bowel or bladder
    * Sudden increase in pain or discomfort
    * Slower than expected healing
    * Fever 

## Alternative Names

SIJ pain - aftercare; SIJ dysfunction - aftercare; SIJ strain - aftercare; SIJ
subluxation - aftercare; SIJ syndrome - aftercare; SI joint - aftercare

## References

Cohen SP, Chen Y, Neufeld NJ. Sacroiliac joint pain: a comprehensive review of
epidemiology, diagnosis and treatment. _Expert Rev Neurother_.
2013;13(1):99-116. PMID: 23253394 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23253394.

Isaac Z, Brassil ME. Sacroiliac joint dysfunction. In: Frontera WR, Silver JK,
Rizzo TD, eds. _Essentials of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 51.

Placide R, Mazanec DJ. Masqueraders of spinal pathology. In: Steinmetz MP,
Benzel EC, eds. _Benzel's Spine Surgery_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 26.

## Review Date 11/5/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Back Pain

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

