Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000993.htm    
                                Description: Diskitis is swelling (inflammation) and irritation of the space between the bones of the spine (intervertebral disk space).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Diskitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000993.htm

# Diskitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Diskitis is swelling (inflammation) and irritation of the space between the
bones of the spine (intervertebral disk space).

## Causes

Diskitis is an uncommon condition. It is usually seen in children younger than
10 years and in adults around 50 years of age. Men are more affected than
women.

Diskitis can be caused by an infection from bacteria or a virus. It can also
be caused by inflammation, such as from autoimmune diseases. Autoimmune
diseases are conditions in which the immune system mistakenly attacks certain
cells in the body.

Disks in the neck and low back are most commonly affected.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

    * Abdominal pain
    * Back pain
    * Difficulty getting up and standing
    * Increased curvature of the back
    * Irritability
    * Low-grade fever (102Â°F or 38.9Â°C) or lower
    * Sweating at night  

    * Recent flu-like symptoms
    * Refusal to sit up, stand, or walk (younger child)
    * Stiffness in back 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about the
symptoms.

Tests that may be ordered include any of the following:

    * Bone scan
    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * ESRÂ orÂ C-reactive protein to measure inflammation
    * MRI of the spine
    * X-ray of the spine 

## Treatment

The goal is to treat the cause of the inflammation or infection and reduce
pain. Treatment may involve any of the following:

    * Antibiotics if the infection is caused by bacteria
    * Anti-inflammatory medicines if the cause is an autoimmune disease
    * Pain medicines such as NSAIDs
    * Bed rest or a brace to keep the back from moving
    * Surgery if other methods don't work

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Children with an infection should fully recover after treatment. In rare
cases, chronic back pain persists.

In cases of autoimmune disease, the outcome depends on the underlying
condition. These are often chronic illnesses that need long-term medical care.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Persistent back pain (rare)
    * Side effects of medicines

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if your child has back pain that does not go away, or
problems with standing and walking that seem unusual for the child's age.

## Alternative Names

Disk inflammation

## Images

    * ![Skeletal spine](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1116t.jpg)Skeletal spine
    * ![Intervertebral disk](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19469t.jpg)Intervertebral disk

## References

Camillo FX. Infections and tumors of the spine. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale
ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics._ 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 42.

Hong DK, Gutierrez K. Diskitis. In: Long S, Prober CG, Fischer M, eds.
_Principles and Practice of Pediatric Infectious Diseases._ 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 78.

## Review Date 8/15/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Back Pain](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BackPain_thumb.jpg)Back Pain _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

