Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000416.htm    
                                Description: Chiropractic care is a way to diagnose and treat health problems that affect the nerves, muscles, bones, and joints of the body. A health care provider who provides chiropractic care is called a chiropractor.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Chiropractic care for back pain

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000416.htm

# Chiropractic care for back pain

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Chiropractic care is a way to diagnose and treat health problems that affect
the nerves, muscles, bones, and joints of the body. A health care provider who
provides chiropractic care is called a chiropractor.

Hands-on adjustment of the spine, called spinal manipulation, is the basis of
chiropractic care. Most chiropractors also use other types of treatments as
well.

## What Happens During a Visit to a Chiropractor?

The first visit most often lasts 30 to 60 minutes. Your chiropractor will ask
about your goals for treatment and your health history. You will be asked
about your:

    * Past injuries and illnesses
    * Current health problems
    * Any medicines you are taking
    * Lifestyle
    * Diet
    * Sleep habits
    * Exercise
    * Mental stresses you might have
    * Use of alcohol, drugs, or tobacco 

Tell your chiropractor about any physical problems you may have that make it
hard for you to do certain things. Also tell your chiropractor if you have any
numbness, tingling, weakness, or any other nerve problems.

After asking you about your health, your chiropractor will do a physical exam.
This will include testing your spinal mobility (how well your spine moves).
Your chiropractor may also do some tests, such as checking your blood pressure
and taking x-rays. These tests look for problems that might be adding to your
back pain.

Treatment begins at the first or second visit in most cases.

    * You may be asked to lie on a special table, where the chiropractor does the spinal manipulations.
    * The most common treatment is manipulation done by hand. It involves moving a joint in your spine to the end of its range, followed by a light thrust. This is often called an "adjustment." It realigns the bones of your spine to make them straighter.
    * The chiropractor may also do other treatments, like massage and other work on soft tissues. 

Some people are a little achy, stiff, and tired for a few days after their
manipulations. This is because their bodies are adjusting to their new
alignment. You should not feel any pain from the manipulation.

## How Many Treatments Will You Need?

More than one session is most often needed to correct a problem. Treatments
generally last several weeks. Your chiropractor may suggest 2 or 3 short
sessions a week at first. These would last only about 10 to 20 minutes each.
Once you start improving, your treatments may be just once a week. You and
your chiropractor will talk about how effective the treatment is based on the
goals you discussed in your first session.

## What Conditions Does Chiropractic Treat Best?

Chiropractic treatment is most effective for:

    * Subacute back pain (pain that has been present for 3 months or less)
    * Flare-ups of chronic (long-term) back pain
    * Neck pain 

## Who Should Not Be Treated with Chiropractic?

People should not have chiropractic treatment in the parts of their bodies
that are affected by:

    * Bone fractures or bone tumors
    * Severe arthritis
    * Bone or joint infections
    * Severe osteoporosis (thinning bones) 
    * Severely pinched nerves

Very rarely, manipulation of the neck may damage blood vessels or cause
strokes. It is also very rare that manipulation may worsen a condition. The
screening process your chiropractor does at your first visit is meant to see
if you might be at high risk for these problems. Make sure to discuss all of
your symptoms and past medical history with the chiropractor. If you are at
high risk, your chiropractor will not do neck manipulation.

## References

Lemmon R, Roseen EJ. Chronic low back pain. In: Rakel D, ed. _Integrative
Medicine_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 67.

Puentedrua LE. Spinal manipulation. In: Giangarra CE, Manske RC, eds.
_Clinical Orthopaedic Rehabilitation: A Team Approach_. 4th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 78.

Wolf CJ, Brault JS. Manipulation, traction, and massage. In: Cifu DX, ed.
_Braddom's Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 16.

## Review Date 7/7/2019

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Back Pain
    * Chiropractic
    * Non-Drug Pain Management

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

