Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000413.htm    
                                Description: Narcotics are strong drugs that are sometimes used to treat pain. They are also called opioids. You take them only when your pain is so severe that you cannot work or do your daily tasks. They may also    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Taking narcotics for back pain

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000413.htm

# Taking narcotics for back pain

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Narcotics are strong drugs that are sometimes used to treat pain. They are
also called opioids. You take them only when your pain is so severe that you
cannot work or do your daily tasks. They may also be used if other types of
pain medicine do not relieve pain.

Narcotics can provide short-term relief of severe back pain. This can allow
you to return to your normal daily routine.

Narcotics work by attaching themselves to pain receptors in your brain. Pain
receptors receive chemical signals sent to your brain and help create the
sensation of pain. When narcotics attach to pain receptors, the drug can block
the feeling of pain. Even though narcotics can block the pain, they cannot
cure the cause of your pain.

## Names of Narcotics

Narcotics include:

    * Codeine
    * Fentanyl (Duragesic). Comes as a patch that sticks to your skin.
    * Hydrocodone (Vicodin)
    * Hydromorphone (Dilaudid)
    * Meperidine (Demerol)
    * Morphine (MS Contin)
    * Oxycodone (Oxycontin, Percocet, Percodan)
    * Tramadol (Ultram) 

## Taking Narcotics

Narcotics are called "controlled substances" or "controlled medicines." This
means that their use is regulated by law. One reason for this is that
narcotics can be addictive. To avoid narcotics addiction, take these drugs
exactly as your health care provider and pharmacist prescribes.

DO NOT take narcotics for back pain for more than 3 to 4 months at a time.
(This amount of time may even be too long for some people.) There are many
other interventions of medications and treatments with good results for long
term back pain that does not include narcotics. Chronic narcotic use is not
healthy for you.

How you take narcotics will depend on your pain. Your provider may advise you
to take them only when you have pain. Or you may be advised to take them on a
regular schedule if your pain is hard to control.

Some important guidelines to follow while taking narcotics include:

    * DO NOT share your narcotic medicine with anyone.
    * If you are seeing more than one provider, tell each one that you are taking narcotics for pain. Taking too much can cause an overdose or addiction. You should only get pain medicine from one physician.
    * When your pain begins to lessen, talk with the provider you see for pain about switching to another kind of pain reliever.
    * Store your narcotics safely. Keep them out of reach of children and others in your home. 

## Common Side Effects of Narcotics

Narcotics can make you sleepy and confused. Impaired judgment is common. When
you are taking narcotics, DO NOT drink alcohol, use street drugs, or drive or
operate heavy machinery.

These medicines can make your skin feel itchy. If this is a problem for you,
talk with your provider about lowering your dose or trying another medicine.

Some people become constipated when taking narcotics. If this happens, your
provider may advise you to drink more fluids, get more exercise, eat foods
with extra fiber, or use stool softeners. Other medicines can often help with
constipation.

If the narcotic medicine makes you feel sick to your stomach or causes you to
throw up, try taking your medicine with food. Other medicines can often help
with nausea, as well.

## Alternative Names

Nonspecific back pain - narcotics; Backache - chronic - narcotics; Lumbar pain
- chronic - narcotics; Pain - back - chronic - narcotics; Chronic back pain -
low - narcotics

## References

Chaparro LE, Furlan AD, Deshpande A, Mailis-Gagnon A, Atlas S, Turk DC.
Opioids compared with placebo or other treatments for chronic low-back pain:
an update of the Cochrane Review. _Spine_. 2014;39(7):556-563. PMID: 24480962
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24480962.

Dinakar P. Principles of pain management. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta
JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 54.

Hobelmann JG, Clark MR. Substance use disorders and detoxification. In: Benzon
HT, Raja SN, Liu SS, Fishman SM, Cohen SP, eds. _Essentials of Pain Medicine_.
4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 47.

Turk DC. Psychosocial aspects of chronic pain. In: Benzon HT, Rathmell JP, WU
CL, Turk DC, Argoff CE, Hurley RW, eds. _Practical Management of Pain_. 5th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Mosby; 2014:chap 12.

## Review Date 7/7/2019

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Back Pain
    * Pain Relievers

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

