Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007422.htm    
                                Description: Low back pain refers to pain that you feel in your lower back. You may also have back stiffness, decreased movement of the lower back, and difficulty standing straight.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Low back pain - chronic

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007422.htm

# Low back pain - chronic

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Low back pain refers to pain that you feel in your lower back. You may also
have back stiffness, decreased movement of the lower back, and difficulty
standing straight.

Low back pain that is long-term is called chronic low back pain.

## Causes

Low back pain is common. Almost everyone has back pain at some time in their
life. Often, the exact cause of the pain cannot be found.

A single event may not have caused your pain. You may have been doing many
activities, such as lifting the wrong way, for a long time. Then suddenly, one
simple movement, such as reaching for something or bending from your waist,
leads to pain.

Many people with chronic back pain have arthritis. Or they may have extra wear
and tear of the spine, which may be due to:

    * Heavy use from work or sports
    * Injuries or fractures
    * Surgery 

You may have had a herniated disk, in which part of the spinal disk pushed
onto nearby nerves. Normally, the disks provide space and cushion in your
spine. If these disks dry out and become thinner and more brittle, you can
lose movement in the spine over time.

If the spaces between the spinal nerves and spinal cord become narrowed, this
can lead to spinal stenosis. These problems are called degenerative joint or
spine disease.

![Spinal stenosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19527.jpg)

Other possible causes of chronic low back pain include:

    * Curvature of the spine, such as scoliosis or kyphosis
    * Medical problems, such as fibromyalgia or rheumatoid arthritis
    * Piriformis syndrome, a pain disorder involving a muscle in the buttocks called the piriformis muscle 

You are at greater risk for low back pain if you:

    * Are over age 30
    * Are overweight
    * Are pregnant
    * Do not exercise
    * Feel stressed or depressed
    * Have a job in which you have to do heavy lifting, bending and twisting, or that involves whole body vibration, such as truck driving or using a sandblaster
    * Smoke 

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

    * Dull aching pain
    * Sharp pain
    * Tingling or burning sensation
    * Weakness in your legs or feet 

Low back pain can differ from person to person. The pain may be mild, or it
can be so severe that you cannot move.

Depending on the cause of your back pain, you may also have pain in your leg,
hip, or on the bottom of your foot.

## Exams and Tests

During the physical exam, the health care provider will try to pinpoint the
location of the pain and figure out how it affects your movement.

Other tests you have depend on your medical history and symptoms.

Tests may include:

    * Blood tests, such as a complete blood count and erythrocyte sedimentation rate
    * CT scan of the lower spine
    * MRI scan of the lower spine
    * Myelogram (x-ray or CT scan of the spine after dye has been injected into the spinal column)
    * X-ray

## Treatment

Your back pain may not go away completely, or it may get more painful at
times. Learn to take care of your back at home and how to prevent repeat
episodes of back pain. This can help you continue with your normal activities.

Your provider may recommend measures to reduce your pain, including:

    * A back brace to support your back
    * Cold packs and heat therapy
    * Traction
    * Physical therapy, involving stretching and strengthening exercises
    * Counseling to learn ways to understand and manage your pain 

These other health care providers may also help:

    * Massage therapist
    * Someone who performs acupuncture
    * Someone who does spinal manipulation (a chiropractor, osteopathic physician, or physical therapist) 

If needed, your provider may prescribe medicines to help with your back pain:

    * Aspirin, naproxen (Aleve), or ibuprofen (Advil), which you can buy without a prescription
    * Low doses of prescription medicines
    * Narcotics or opioids when the pain is severe 

If your pain does not improve with medicine, physical therapy, and other
treatments, your provider may recommend an epidural injection.

Spinal surgery is considered only if you have nerve damage or the cause of the
back pain does not heal after a long time.

In some patients, a spinal cord stimulator can help reduce back pain.

Other treatments that may be recommended if your pain does not improve with
medicine and physical therapy include:

    * Spinal surgery, only if you have nerve damage or the cause of your pain does not heal after a long time
    * Spinal cord stimulation, in which a small device sends an electric current to the spine to block pain signals 

Some people with low back pain may also need:

    * Job changes
    * Job counseling
    * Job retraining
    * Occupational therapy 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most back problems get better on their own. Follow your providerâs advice on
treatment and self-care measures.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have severe back pain that does not go away. Call
right away if you have numbness, loss of movement, weakness, or bowel or
bladder changes.

## Alternative Names

Nonspecific back pain; Backache - chronic; Lumbar pain - chronic; Pain - back
- chronic; Chronic back pain - low

## Patient Instructions

    * Spine surgery - discharge

## Images

    * ![Spinal stenosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19527t.jpg)Spinal stenosis
    * ![Backaches](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9093t.jpg)Backaches

## References

Abd OHE, Amadera JED. Low back strain or sprain. In: Frontera WR, Silver JK,
Rizzo TD Jr, eds. _Essentials of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation:
Musculoskeletal Disorders, Pain, and Rehabilitation_. 4th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 48.

Maher C, Underwood M, Buchbinder R. Non-specific low back pain. _Lancet_.
2017;389:736â747. PMID: 27745712. www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27745712.

Malik K, Nelson A. Overview of low back pain disorders. In: Benzon HT, Raja
SN, Liu SS, Fishman SM, Cohen SP, eds. _Essentials of Pain Medicine_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 24.

## Review Date 5/13/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Back Pain](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BackPain_thumb.jpg)Back Pain _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

