Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007494.htm    
                                Description: When you first see your health care provider for back pain, you will be asked about your back pain, including how often and when it occurs and how severe it is.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Back pain - when you see the doctor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007494.htm

# Back pain - when you see the doctor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

When you first see your health care provider for back pain, you will be asked
about your back pain, including how often and when it occurs and how severe it
is.

Your provider will try to determine the cause of your pain and whether it is
likely to quickly get better with simple measures, such as ice, mild
painkillers, physical therapy, and exercise.

## Information

Questions your provider may ask include:

    * Is your back pain on one side only or both sides?
    * What does the pain feel like? Is it dull, sharp, throbbing, or burning?
    * Is this the first time you have had back pain?
    * When did the pain begin? Did it start suddenly?
    * Did you have an injury or accident?
    * What were you doing just before the pain began? For example, were you lifting or bending? Sitting at your computer? Driving a long distance?
    * If you have had back pain before, is this pain similar or different? In what way is it different?
    * Do you know what caused your back pain in the past?
    * How long does each episode of back pain usually last?
    * Do you feel the pain anywhere else, such as in your hip, thigh, leg or feet?
    * Do you have any numbness or tingling? Any weakness or loss of function in your leg or elsewhere?
    * What makes the pain worse? Lifting, twisting, standing, or sitting for long periods?
    * What makes you feel better? 

You will also be asked if you have other symptoms, which may point to a more
serious cause. Tell your provider if you have had weight loss, fever, a change
in urination or bowel habits, or a history of cancer.

Your provider will perform a physical exam to try to find the exact location
of your pain, and determine how it affects your movement. Your back will be
pressed on at different spots to find where it hurts. You will also be asked
to:

    * Sit, stand, and walk
    * Walk on your toes and then your heels
    * Bend forward, backward, and sideways
    * Lift your legs straight up while lying down
    * Move your back in certain positions 

If the pain is worse and goes down your leg when you lift your legs straight
up while lying down, you may have sciatica, especially if you also feel
numbness or tingling going down the same leg.

Your provider will also move your legs into different positions, including
bending and straightening your knees.

A small rubber hammer is used to check your reflexes and to see if your nerves
are working properly. Your provider will touch your skin in many places, using
a pin, cotton swab, or feather. This reveals how well you can feel or sense
things.

## References

Dixit R. Low back pain. In: Firestein GS, Budd RC, Gabriel SE, McInnes IB,
O'Dell JR, eds. _Kelly and Firestein's Textbook of Rheumatology_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 47.

Qaseem A, Wilt TJ, McLean RM, Forciea MA; Clinical Guidelines Committee of the
American College of Physicians. Noninvasive treatments for acute, subacute,
and chronic low back pain: a clinical practice guideline from the American
College of Physicians. _Ann Intern Med_. 2017;166(7):514-530. PMID: 28192789
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28192789.

## Review Date 7/7/2019

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Back Pain](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BackPain_thumb.jpg)Back Pain _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

