Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/dengue-fever-test/    
                                Description: A dengue fever test is a blood test that checks for signs of a dengue fever infection. Dengue fever is a virus spread by mosquitos. Most people with dengue fever have mild symptoms. But sometimes the infection develops into a life-threatening condition. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Dengue Fever Test

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/dengue-fever-test/

# Dengue Fever Test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a dengue fever test?

Dengue fever is a viral infection spread by mosquitos. The virus can't be
spread from person to person. Mosquitos that carry the dengue virus are most
common in areas of the world with tropical and subtropical climates. These
include parts of:

    * South and Central America
    * Southeast Asia
    * The South Pacific
    * Africa
    * The Caribbean, including Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands

Dengue fever is rare in the U.S. mainland, but cases have been reported in
Florida and in Texas near the Mexican border.

Most people who get dengue fever have no symptoms, or mild, flu-like symptoms
such as fever, chills, and headache. These symptoms usually last for a week or
so. But sometimes dengue fever can develop into a much more serious disease
called dengue hemorrhagic fever (DHF).

DHF causes life-threatening symptoms, including blood vessel damage and shock.
Shock is a condition that can lead to a severe drop in blood pressure and
organ failure.

DHF mostly affects children under 10. It can also develop if you have dengue
fever and get infected a second time before you have fully recovered from your
first infection.

A dengue fever test looks for signs of the dengue virus in the blood.

While there is no medicine that can cure dengue fever or DHF, other treatments
can help relieve symptoms. This can make you more comfortable if you have
dengue fever. It can be lifesaving if you have DHF.

Other names: dengue virus antibody, dengue virus by PCR

## What is it used for?

A dengue fever test is used to find out if you have been infected with the
dengue virus. It is mostly used for people who have symptoms of illness and
have recently traveled to an area where dengue infections are common.

## Why do I need a dengue fever test?

You may need this test if you live or have recently traveled to an area where
dengue is common, and you have symptoms of dengue fever. Symptoms usually show
up four to seven days after being bitten by an infected mosquito, and may
include:

    * Sudden high fever (104Â°F or higher)
    * Swollen glands
    * Rash on the face
    * Severe headache and/or pain behind the eyes
    * Joint and muscle pain
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Fatigue

Dengue hemorrhagic fever (DHF) causes more severe symptoms and can be life-
threatening. If you've had symptoms of dengue fever and/or have been in an
area that has dengue, you may be at risk for DHF. Seek medical help
immediately if you or your child has one or more of the following symptoms:

    * Severe abdominal pain
    * Vomiting that doesn't go away
    * Bleeding gums
    * Nose bleeds
    * Bleeding under the skin, which may look like bruises
    * Blood in urine and/or stools
    * Difficulty breathing
    * Cold, clammy skin
    * Restlessness

## What happens during a dengue fever test?

Your health care provider will probably ask about your symptoms and for
details on your recent travels. If an infection is suspected, you will get a
blood test to check for the dengue virus.

During a blood test, a health care professional will take a blood sample from
a vein in your arm, using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a
small amount of blood will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel
a little sting when the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than
five minutes.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You don't need any special preparations for a dengue fever test.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

## What do the results mean?

A positive result means you probably have been infected with the dengue virus.
A negative result can mean you aren't infected or you were tested too soon for
the virus to show up in testing. If you think you were exposed to the dengue
virus and/or have symptoms of infection, talk to your health care provider
about whether you need to be retested.

If your results were positive, talk to your health care provider about how to
best treat your dengue fever infection. There are no medicines for dengue
fever, but your provider will probably recommend that you get plenty of rest
and drink lots of fluids to avoid dehydration. You may also be advised to take
over-the-counter pain relievers with acetaminophen (Tylenol), to help ease
body aches and reduce fever. Aspirin and ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) are not
recommended, as they may worsen bleeding.

If your results are positive and you have symptoms of dengue hemorrhagic
fever, you may need to go to the hospital for treatment. Treatment may include
getting fluids through an intravenous (IV) line, a blood transfusion if you've
lost a lot of blood, and careful monitoring of blood pressure.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about a dengue fever test?

If you will be traveling to an area where dengue is common, you can take steps
to reduce your risk of getting infected with the dengue virus. These include:

    * Apply an insect repellent containing DEET on your skin and clothing.
    * Wear long-sleeved shirts and pants.
    * Use screens on windows and doors.
    * Sleep under a mosquito net.

## References

    1. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Dengue and Dengue Hemorrhagic Fever [cited 2018 Dec 2]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/dengue/resources/denguedhf-information-for-health-care-practitioners_2009.pdf
    2. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Dengue: Frequently Asked Questions [updated 2012 Sep 27; cited 2018 Dec 2]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/dengue/faqfacts/index.html
    3. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Dengue: Travel and Dengue Outbreaks [updated 2012 Jun 26; cited 2018 Dec 2]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/dengue/travelOutbreaks/index.html
    4. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. Dengue Fever Testing [updated 2018 Sep 27; cited 2018 Dec 2]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/dengue-fever-testing
    5. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.; American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. Shock [updated 2017 Nov 27; cited 2018 Dec 2]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/glossary/shock
    6. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2018. Dengue Fever: Diagnosis and treatment; 2018 Feb 16 [cited 2018 Dec 2]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/dengue-fever/diagnosis-treatment/drc-20353084
    7. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2018. Dengue Fever: Symptoms and causes; 2018 Feb 16 [cited 2018 Dec 2]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/dengue-fever/symptoms-causes/syc-20353078
    8. Mayo Clinic: Mayo Medical Laboratories [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1995â2018. Test ID: DENGM: Dengue Virus Antibody, IgG and IgM, Serum: Clinical and Interpretive [cited 2018 Dec 2]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayomedicallaboratories.com/test-catalog/Clinical+and+Interpretive/83865
    9. Mayo Clinic: Mayo Medical Laboratories [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1995â2018. Test ID: DENGM: Dengue Virus Antibody, IgG and IgM, Serum: Overview [cited 2018 Dec 2]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayomedicallaboratories.com/test-catalog/Overview/83865
    10. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co. Inc.; c2018. Dengue [cited 2018 Dec 2]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.merckmanuals.com/home/infections/arboviruses,-arenaviruses,-and-filoviruses/dengue
    11. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Blood Tests [cited 2018 Dec 2]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    12. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida Health; c2018. Dengue fever: Overview [updated 2018 Dec 2; cited 2018 Dec 2]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/dengue-fever
    13. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2018. Health Encyclopedia: Dengue Fever [cited 2018 Dec 2]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=85&contentid=P01425
    14. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Health Information: Dengue Fever: Topic Overview [updated 2017 Nov 18; cited 2018 Dec 2]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/special/dengue-fever/abk8893.html
    15. World Health Organization [Internet]. Geneva (SUI): World Health Organization; c2018. Dengue and severe dengue; 2018 Sep 13 [cited 2018 Dec 2]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: http://www.who.int/en/news-room/fact-sheets/detail/dengue-and-severe-dengue

## Related Health Topics

    * Dengue
    * Mosquito Bites
    * Pain Relievers
    * Shock

## Related Lab Test Information

    * How to Understand Your Lab Results
    * Zika Virus Test

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 25 February 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

