Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001374.htm    
                                Description: Dengue fever is a virus-caused disease that is spread by mosquitoes.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Dengue fever

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001374.htm

# Dengue fever

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Dengue fever is a virus-caused disease that is spread by mosquitoes.

## Causes

Dengue fever is caused by 1 of 4 different but related viruses. It is spread
by the bite of mosquitoes, most commonly the mosquito _Aedes aegypti_ , which
is found in tropic and subtropic regions. This area includes parts of:

    * Indonesian archipelago into northeastern Australia
    * South and Central America
    * Southeast Asia
    * Sub-Saharan Africa
    * Some parts of the Caribbean (including Puerto Rico and US Virgin Islands) 

Dengue fever is rare in the US mainland, but has been found in Florida and
Texas. Dengue fever should not be confused with dengue hemorrhagic fever,
which is a separate disease caused by the same type of virus, but has much
more severe symptoms.

## Symptoms

Dengue fever begins with a sudden high fever, often as high as 105Â°F
(40.5Â°C), 4 to 7 days after the infection.

A flat, red rash may appear over most of the body 2Â to 5 days after the fever
starts. A second rash, which looks like the measles, appears later in the
disease. Infected people may have increased skin sensitivity and are very
uncomfortable.

Other symptoms include:

    * Fatigue
    * Headache (especially behind the eyes)
    * Joint aches (often severe)
    * Muscle aches (often severe)
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Swollen lymph nodes
    * Cough
    * Sore throat
    * Nasal stuffiness

## Exams and Tests

Tests that may be done to diagnose this condition include:

    * Antibody titer for dengue virus types
    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test for dengue virus types
    * Liver function tests

## Treatment

There is no specific treatment for dengue fever. Fluids are given if there are
signs of dehydration. Acetaminophen (Tylenol) is used to treat a high fever.

Avoid taking aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), and naproxen (Aleve). They
may increase bleeding problems.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The condition generally lasts a week or more. Although uncomfortable, dengue
fever is not deadly. People with the condition should fully recover.

## Possible Complications

Untreated, dengue fever may cause the following health problems:

    * Febrile convulsions
    * Severe dehydration

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have traveled in an area where dengue
fever is known to occur and you have symptoms of the disease.

## Prevention

Clothing, mosquito repellent, and netting can help reduce the risk for
mosquito bites that can spread dengue fever and other infections. Limit
outdoor activity during mosquito season, especially when they are most active,
at dawn and dusk.

## Alternative Names

O'nyong-nyong fever; Dengue-like disease; Breakbone fever

## Images

    * ![Mosquito, adult feeding on the skin](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1246t.jpg)Mosquito, adult feeding on the skin
    * ![Dengue fever](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17148t.jpg)Dengue fever
    * ![Mosquito, adult](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1247t.jpg)Mosquito, adult
    * ![Mosquito egg raft](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1248t.jpg)Mosquito, egg raft
    * ![Mosquito - larvae](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1249t.jpg)Mosquito - larvae
    * ![Mosquito, pupa](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1250t.jpg)Mosquito, pupa
    * ![Antibodies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9069t.jpg)Antibodies

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Dengue.
www.cdc.gov/dengue/index.html. Updated May 3, 2019. Accessed September 17,
2019.

Endy TP. Viral febrile illnesses and emerging pathogens. In: Ryan ET, Hill DR,
Solomon T, Aronson NE, Endy TP, eds. _Hunter's Tropical Medicine and
Infectious Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 36.

Thomas SJ, Endy TP, Rothman AL, Barrett AD. Flaviviruses (dengue, yellow
fever, Japanese encephalitis, West Nile encephalitis, Usutu encephalitis, St.
Louis encephalitis, tick-borne encephalitis, Kyasanur forest disease, Alkhurma
hemorrhagic fever, Zika). In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell,
Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases_. 9th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 153.

## Review Date 8/25/2019

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Dengue](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Dengue_thumb.jpg)Dengue _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

