Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003589.htm    
                                Description: The urine protein electrophoresis (UPEP) test is used to estimate how much of certain proteins are in the urine.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Urine protein electrophoresis test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003589.htm

# Urine protein electrophoresis test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The urine protein electrophoresis (UPEP) test is used to estimate how much of
certain proteins are in the urine.

## How the Test is Performed

A clean-catch urine sample is needed. The clean-catch method is used to
prevent germs from the penis or vagina from getting into a urine sample. To
collect your urine, the health care provider may give you a special clean-
catch kit that contains a cleansing solution and sterile wipes. Follow the
instructions exactly.

After you provide a urine sample, it is sent to the laboratory. There, the
laboratory specialist will place the urine sample on special paper and apply
an electric current. The proteins move and form visible bands. These reveal
the general amounts of each protein.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Your provider may tell you to stop taking certain medicines that could
interfere with the test. Medicines that can affect test results include:

    * Chlorpromazine
    * Corticosteroids
    * Isoniazid
    * Neomycin
    * Phenacemide
    * Salicylates
    * Sulfonamides
    * Tolbutamide 

Do not stop taking any medicine without first talking to your provider.

## How the Test will Feel

This test involves only normal urination. There is no discomfort.

## Why the Test is Performed

Normally there is no protein, or only a small amount of protein in the urine.
An abnormally high amount of protein in the urine can be a sign of many
different disorders.

UPEP may be recommended to help determine the cause of protein in the urine.
Or it may be done as a screening test to measure the various amounts of
different types of proteins in urine. UPEP detects 2 types of protein: albumin
and globulins.

## Normal Results

No significant amount of globulins are found in the urine. Urine albumin is
less than 5 mg/dL.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different specimens. Talk to your doctor
about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

If the urine sample has a significant amount of globulins or higher than
normal level of albumin, it may mean any of the following:

    * Acute inflammation
    * Abnormal protein buildup in tissues and organsÂ (amyloidosis)
    * Decreased kidney function
    * Kidney disease due to diabetes (diabetic nephropathy)
    * Kidney failure
    * A type of blood cancer called multiple myeloma
    * Group of symptoms that include protein in the urine, low protein level in the blood, swelling (nephrotic syndrome)
    * Acute urinary tract infection

## Risks

There are no risks with this test.

## Alternative Names

Urine protein electrophoresis; UPEP; Multiple myeloma - UPEP; WaldenstrÃ¶m
macroglobulinemia - UPEP; Amyloidosis - UPEP

## Images

    * ![Male urinary system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10022t.jpg)Male urinary system

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Protein electrophoresisÂ - urine. In: Chernecky CC,
Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:920-923.

McPherson RA. Specific proteins. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's
Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis,
MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 19.

## Review Date 4/11/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Diabetic Kidney
Problems](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DiabeticKidneyProblems_thumb.jpg)Diabetic
Kidney Problems _Read more_

![Kidney Tests](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyTests_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Tests _Read more_

![Urinary Tract
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UTI_thumb.jpg)Urinary Tract
Infections _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

