Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003751.htm    
                                Description: A urine culture is a lab test to check for bacteria or other germs in a urine sample.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Urine culture

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003751.htm

# Urine culture

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A urine culture is a lab test to check for bacteria or other germs in a urine
sample.

It can be used to check for a urinary tract infection in adults and children.

## How the Test is Performed

Most of the time, the sample will be collected as a clean catch urine sample
in your health care provider's office or your home. You will use a special kit
to collect the urine.

A urine sample can also be taken by inserting a thin rubber tube (catheter)
through the urethra into the bladder. This is done by someone in your
provider's office or at the hospital. The urine drains into a sterile
container, and the catheter is removed.

Rarely, your provider may collect a urine sample by inserting a needle through
the skin of your lower abdomen into your bladder.

The urine is taken to a lab to determine which, if any, bacteria or yeast are
present in the urine. This takes 24 to 48 hours.

## How to Prepare for the Test

If possible, collect the sample when urine has been in your bladder for 2 to 3
hours.

## How the Test will Feel

When the catheter is inserted, you may feel pressure. A special gel is used to
numb the urethra.

## Why the Test is Performed

Your provider may order this test if you have symptoms of a urinary tract
infection or bladder infection, such as pain or burning when urinating.

You also may have a urine culture after you have been treated for an
infection. This is to make sure that all of the bacteria are gone.

## Normal Results

"Normal growth" is a normal result. This means that there is no infection.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your doctor
about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A "positive" or abnormal test is when bacteria or yeast are found in the
culture. This likely means that you have a urinary tract infection or bladder
infection.

Other tests may help your provider know which bacteria or yeast are causing
the infection and which antibiotics will best treat it.

Sometimes more than one type of bacteria, or only a small amount, may be found
in the culture.

## Risks

There is a very rare risk of a hole (perforation) in the urethra or bladder if
your provider uses a catheter.

## Considerations

You may have a false-negative urine culture if you have been taking
antibiotics.

## Alternative Names

Culture and sensitivity - urine

## Images

    * ![Urine sample](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10011t.jpg)Urine sample
    * ![Female urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1122t.jpg)Female urinary tract
    * ![Male urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1123t.jpg)Male urinary tract

## References

Dean AJ, Lee DC. Bedside laboratory and microbiologic procedures. In: Roberts
JR, Custalow CB, Thomsen TW, eds. _Roberts and Hedges' Clinical Procedures in
Emergency Medicine and Acute Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 67.

Germann CA, Holmes JA. Selected urologic disorders. In: Walls RM, Hockberger
RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 89.

Schaeffer AJ, Matulewicz RS, Klumpp DJ. Infections of the urinary tract. In:
Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_.
11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 12.

## Review Date 10/8/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Urinary Tract
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UTI_thumb.jpg)Urinary Tract
Infections _Read more_

![Urine and
Urination](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UrineandUrination_thumb.jpg)Urine
and Urination _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

