Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003752.htm    
                                Description: Catheterized specimen urine culture is a laboratory test that looks for germs in a urine sample.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Urine culture - catheterized specimen

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003752.htm

# Urine culture - catheterized specimen

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Catheterized specimen urine culture is a laboratory test that looks for germs
in a urine sample.

## How the Test is Performed

This test requires a urine sample. The sample is taken by placing a thin
rubber tube (called a catheter) through the urethra into the bladder. A nurse
or a trained technician may do this.

First, the area around the opening of the urethra is thoroughly washed with a
germ-killing (antiseptic) solution. The tube is inserted into the urethra. The
urine drains into a sterile container, and the catheter is removed.

Rarely, the health care provider may choose to collect a urine sample by
inserting a needle directly into the bladder from the abdominal wall and
draining the urine. However, this is most often done only in infants or to
immediately screen for bacterial infection.

The urine is sent to a laboratory. Tests are done to determine if there are
germs in the urine sample. Other tests may be done to determine the best
medicine to fight the germs.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Do not urinate for at least 1 hour before the test. If you don't have the urge
to urinate, you may be instructed to drink a glass of water 15 to 20 minutes
before the test. Otherwise, there is no preparation for the test.

## How the Test will Feel

There is some discomfort. As the catheter is inserted, you may feel pressure.
If you have a urinary tract infection, you may have some pain when the
catheter is inserted.

## Why the Test is Performed

The test is done:

    * To get a sterile urine sample in a person who cannot urinate on their own
    * If you might have a urinary tract infection
    * If you cannot empty your bladder (urinary retention)

## Normal Results

Normal values depend on the test being performed. Normal results are reported
as "no growth" and are a sign that there is no infection.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A "positive" or abnormal test means germs, such as bacteria or yeast, are
found in the urine sample. This likely means that you have a urinary tract
infection or a bladder infection. If there is only a small amount of germs,
your provider may not recommend treatment.

Sometimes, bacteria that do not cause urinary tract infections may be found in
the culture. This is called a contaminant. You may not need to be treated.

People who have a urinary catheter in all of the time may have bacteria in
their urine sample, but it does not cause a true infection. This is called
being colonized.

## Risks

Risks include:

    * Perforation (hole) in the urethra or bladder from the catheter
    * Infection

## Alternative Names

Culture - urine - catheterized specimen; Urine culture - catheterization;
Catheterized urine specimen culture

## Images

    * ![Female urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1122t.jpg)Female urinary tract
    * ![Male urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1123t.jpg)Male urinary tract
    * ![Bladder catheterization - male](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1066t.jpg)Bladder catheterization - male
    * ![Bladder catheterization - female](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1065t.jpg)Bladder catheterization - female

## References

Dean AJ, Lee DC. Bedside laboratory and microbiologic procedures. In: Roberts
JR, Custalow CB, Thomsen TW, eds. _Roberts and Hedges' Clinical Procedures in
Emergency Medicine and Acute Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 67.

Germann CA, Holmes JA. Selected urologic disorders. In: Walls RM, Hockberger
RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 89.

James RE, Fowler GC. Bladder catheterization (and urethral dilation). In:
Fowler GC, ed. _Pfenninger and Fowler's Procedures for Primary Care_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 96.

Trautner BW, Hooton TM. Health care-associated urinary tract infections. In:
Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's
Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2020:chap 302.

## Review Date 5/13/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Urinary Tract
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UTI_thumb.jpg)Urinary Tract
Infections _Read more_

![Urine and
Urination](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UrineandUrination_thumb.jpg)Urine
and Urination _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

