Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003580.htm    
                                Description: The urine protein dipstick test measures the presence of proteins, such as albumin, in a urine sample.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Urine protein dipstick test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003580.htm

# Urine protein dipstick test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The urine protein dipstick test measures the presence of proteins, such as
albumin, in a urine sample.

Albumin and protein can also be measured using a blood test.

## How the Test is Performed

After you provide a urine sample, it is tested. The health care provider uses
a dipstick made with a color-sensitive pad. The color change on the dipstick
tells the provider the level of protein in your urine.

If needed, your provider may ask you to collect your urine at home over 24
hours. Your provider will tell you how to do this. Follow instructions exactly
so that the results are accurate.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Different medicines can change the result of this test. Before the test, tell
your provider which medicines you are taking. DO NOT stop taking any medicine
before talking to your provider.

The following may also interfere with test results:

    * Dehydration
    * Dye (contrast media) if you have a radiology scan within 3 days before the urine test
    * Fluid from the vagina that gets into the urine
    * Strenuous exercise
    * Urinary tract infection 

## How the Test Will Feel

The test only involves normal urination. There is no discomfort.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is most often done when your provider suspects you have kidney
disease. It may be used as a screening test.

Although small amounts of protein are normally in urine, a routine dipstick
test may not detect them. A urine microalbumin test can be performed to detect
small amounts of albumin in the urine that may not be detected on dipstick
testing. If the kidney is diseased, proteins may be detected on a dipstick
test, even if blood protein levels are normal.

## Normal Results

For a random urine sample, normal values are 0 to 14 mg/dL.

For a 24-hour urine collection, the normal value is less than 80 mg per 24
hours.

The examples above are common measurements for results of these tests. Normal
value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs use
different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your provider about
the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Larger amounts of protein in the urine may be due to:

    * Heart failure
    * Kidney problems, such as kidney damage, diabetic kidney disease, and kidney cysts
    * Loss of body fluids (dehydration)
    * Problems during pregnancy, such as seizures due to eclampsia or high blood pressure caused by preeclampsiaÂ 
    * Urinary tract problems, such as a bladder tumor or infection
    * Multiple myeloma

## Risks

There are no risks with this test.

## Alternative Names

Urine protein; Albumin - urine; Urine albumin; Proteinuria; Albuminuria

## Images

    * ![White nail syndrome](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2013t.jpg)White nail syndrome
    * ![Protein urine test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9791t.jpg)Protein urine test

## References

Krishnan A, Levin A. Laboratory assessment of kidney disease: glomerular
filtration rate, urinalysis, and proteinuria. In: Yu ASL, Chertow GM,Â Luyckx
VA, Marsden PA, Skorecki K, Taal MW, eds. _Brenner and Rector's The Kidney_.
11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 23.

Lamb EJ, Jones GRD. Kidney function tests. In: Rifai N, ed. _Tietz Textbook of
Clinical Chemistry and Molecular Diagnostics_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier;
2018:chap 32.

## Review Date 7/4/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Diabetic Kidney
Problems](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DiabeticKidneyProblems_thumb.jpg)Diabetic
Kidney Problems _Read more_

![Kidney Tests](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyTests_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Tests _Read more_

![Urinalysis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Urinalysis_thumb.jpg)Urinalysis
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

