Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003784.htm    
                                Description: A voiding cystourethrogram is an x-ray study of the bladder and urethra. It is done while the bladder is emptying.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Voiding cystourethrogram

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003784.htm

# Voiding cystourethrogram

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A voiding cystourethrogram is an x-ray study of the bladder and urethra. It is
done while the bladder is emptying.

## How the Test is Performed

The test is performed in a hospital radiology department or in a health care
provider's office.

You will lie on your back on the x-ray table. A thin, flexible tube called a
catheter will be inserted into the urethra (the tube that carries urine from
the bladder to the outside of the body) and passed into the bladder.

Contrast dye flows through the catheter into the bladder. This dye helps the
bladder show up better on x-ray images.

The x-rays are taken from various angles while the bladder is full of contrast
dye. The catheter is removed so that you can urinate. Images are taken while
you empty your bladder.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You must sign a consent form. You will be given a gown to wear.

Remove all jewelry before the test. Inform the provider if you are:

    * Allergic to any medicines
    * Allergic to x-ray contrast material
    * Pregnant

## How the Test will Feel

You may feel some discomfort when the catheter is placed and while your
bladder is full.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test may be done to diagnose the cause of urinary tract infections,
especially in children who have had more than one urinary tract or bladder
infection.

It is also used to diagnose and evaluate:

    * Difficulty emptying the bladder
    * Birth defects with the bladder or urethra
    * Narrowing of the tube that carries urine out of the bladder (urethral stricture) in males
    * Urinary reflux from the bladder up into the kidney

## Normal Results

The bladder and urethra will be normal in size and function.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may indicate the following:

    * Bladder does not empty properly because of a brain or nerve problem (neurogenic bladder)
    * Large prostate gland
    * Narrowing or scarring of the urethra
    * Pouch-like sacs (diverticula) on the walls of the bladder or urethra
    * Ureterocele
    * Urinary reflux nephropathy

## Risks

You may have some discomfort when urinating after this test because of
irritation from the catheter.

You may have bladder spasms after this test, which may be a sign of an
allergic reaction to the contrast dye. Contact your provider if bothersome
bladder spasms occur.

You may see blood in your urine for a couple of days after this test.

## Alternative Names

Cystourethrogram - voiding

## Images

    * ![Voiding cystourethrogram](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1144t.jpg)Voiding cystourethrogram
    * ![Cystography](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9252t.jpg)Cystography

## References

Bellah RD, Tao TY. Pediatric genitourinary radiology. In: Torigian DA,
Ramchandani P, eds. _Radiology Secrets Plus_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2017:chap 88.

Bishoff JT, Rastinehad AR. Urinary tract imaging: basic principles of computed
tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, and plain film. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi
LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 2.

Elder JS. Vesicoureteral reflux. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW,
Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 554.

## Review Date 1/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bladder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BladderCancerandDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bladder
Diseases _Read more_

![Urinary Tract
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UTI_thumb.jpg)Urinary Tract
Infections _Read more_

![X-Rays](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Xray_thumb.jpg)X-Rays _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

