Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007593.htm    
                                Description: Ureteroscopy uses a small lighted viewing scope to examine the ureters. Ureters are the tubes that connect the kidneys to the bladder. This procedure can help diagnose and treat problems in the urinary    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ureteroscopy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007593.htm

# Ureteroscopy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Ureteroscopy uses a small lighted viewing scope to examine the ureters.
Ureters are the tubes that connect the kidneys to the bladder. This procedure
can help diagnose and treat problems in the urinary tract, such as kidney
stones.

## Description

Ureteroscopy is performed with a ureteroscope. This is a small tube (rigid or
flexible) with a tiny light and camera on the end.Â

    * The procedure usually takes 1 hour.
    * You areÂ given general anesthesia. ThisÂ is medicine that allows you to sleep.
    * Your groin and urethraÂ are washed. The scope is then inserted through the urethra, into the bladder, and then up into the ureter.

The next steps are described below.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

During the procedure, your doctor may:

    * Use small instruments that are sent through the scope to grab and remove kidney stonesÂ or break them up using a laser.
    * Place a stent in the ureter to allow urine and small pieces of kidney stone to pass through. If you have a stent, you will need to return to have it removed in 1 or 2 weeks.Â This can usually be done in the doctor's office without anesthesia.
    * Check for cancer.
    * Examine or remove a growth or tumor.
    * Examine areas of the ureters that have become narrow.
    * Diagnose repeated urinary tract infections and other problems.

## Risks

Risks for surgery and anesthesia in general are:

    * Problems breathing
    * Reaction to medicines
    * Bleeding, blood clots, infection 

Risks for this procedure include:

    * Injury of the ureter or kidney
    * Urinary tract infection
    * Narrowing or scarring of the ureter 

## Before the Procedure

Tell your health care provider what medicines you are taking, including ones
you bought without a prescription. Also tell your provider if you are pregnant
or think you may be.

Arrange to have someone take you home after the procedure.

Follow instructions about how to prepare for the procedure. These may include:

    * Not eating or drinking anything after the midnight prior to your procedure.
    * Temporarily stopping certain medicines, such as aspirin or other blood thinners. Do not stop taking any prescription medicines unless your doctor tells you to stop.
    * Ask your doctor which drugs you should still take on the day of your surgery. 

## After the Procedure

You will wake up in a recovery room. You can go home once you are awake and
can urinate.

At home, follow any instructions you're given. These may include the
following:

    * You will need to rest for 24 hours. You should have someone stay with you during that time.
    * Your doctor will likely prescribe medicines for you to take at home. This may include a pain medicine and an antibiotic to prevent infection. Take these as instructed.
    * Drink 4 to 6 glasses of water a day to dilute your urine and help flush out your urinary tract.
    * You will see blood in your urine for several days. This is normal.
    * You may feel pain in your bladder and burning when you urinate. If your doctor says it's OK, sitting in a warm bath may help relieve the discomfort. Using a heating pad set on low can also help.
    * If your doctor placed a stent, you may feel pain in your side, especially during and right after urination.
    * You can drive after you've stopped taking any narcotic pain relievers.

You will likely feel better in about 5 to 7 days. If you have a stent, it may
take longer to feel like yourself again.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Treating kidney stones using ureteroscopy usually has a good outcome.

## Alternative Names

Ureteral stone surgery; Kidney stoneÂ - ureteroscopy; Ureteral stone removal -
ureteroscopy; Calculi - ureteroscopyÂ

## References

Chew BH, Harriman DI. Ureteroscopic instrumentation. In: Smith JA Jr, Howards
SS, Preminger GM, Dmochowski RR, eds. _Hinman's Atlas of Urologic Surgery_.
4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 40.

Duty BD, Conlin MJ. Principles of urologic endoscopy. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi
LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 7.

## Review Date 7/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Endoscopy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Endoscopy_thumb.jpg)Endoscopy
_Read more_

![Kidney Stones](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyStones2_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Stones _Read more_

![Urinary Tract
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UTI_thumb.jpg)Urinary Tract
Infections _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

