Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000526.htm    
                                Description: Acute cystitis is an infection of the bladder or lower urinary tract. Acute means that the infection begins suddenly.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cystitis - acute

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000526.htm

# Cystitis - acute

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Acute cystitis is an infection of the bladder or lower urinary tract. Acute
means that the infection begins suddenly.

## Causes

Cystitis is caused by germs, most often bacteria. These germs enter the
urethra and then the bladder and can cause an infection. The infection
commonly develops in the bladder. It can also spread to the kidneys.

Most of the time, your body can get rid of these bacteria when you urinate.
But, the bacteria can stick to the wall of the urethra or bladder, or grow so
fast that some stay in the bladder.

Women tend to get infections more often than men. This happens because their
urethra is shorter and closer to the anus. Women are more likely to get an
infection after sexual intercourse. Using a diaphragm for birth control can
also be a cause. MenopauseÂ also increases the risk for a urinary tract
infection.

The following also increase your chances of having cystitis:

    * A tube called a urinary catheter inserted in your bladder
    * Blockage of the bladder or urethra
    * Diabetes
    * Enlarged prostate, narrowed urethra, or anything that blocks the flow of urine
    * Loss of bowel control (bowel incontinence)
    * Older age (most often in people who live in nursing homes)
    * Pregnancy
    * Problems fully emptying your bladder (urinary retention)
    * Procedures that involve the urinary tract
    * Staying still (immobile) for a long period of time (for example, when you are recovering from a hip fracture) 

Most cases are caused by _Escherichia coli_ ( _E coli_ ) _._ It isÂ a type of
bacteria found in the intestines.

## Symptoms

The symptoms of a bladder infection include:

    * Cloudy or bloody urine
    * Strong or foul-smelling urine
    * Low fever (not everyone will have a fever)
    * Pain or burning with urination
    * Pressure or cramping in the lower middle abdomen or back
    * Strong need to urinate often, even right after the bladder has been emptied 

Often in an older person, mental changes or confusion are the only signs of a
possible infection.

## Exams and Tests

In most cases, a urine sample is collected to do the following tests:

    * Urinalysis \-- This test is done to look for white blood cells, red blood cells, bacteria, and to check for certain chemicals, such as nitrites in the urine. Most of the time, your health care provider can diagnose an infection using a urinalysis.
    * Urine culture -- A clean catch urine sample may be needed. This test is done to identify the bacteria in the urine and decide on the correct antibiotic. 

## Treatment

Antibiotics can be taken by mouth. These are most often given to stop the
infection from spreading to the kidneys.

For a simple bladder infection, you will take antibiotics for 3 days (women)
or 7 to 14 days (men). For a bladder infection with complications such as
pregnancy, diabetes, or a mild kidney infection, you will most often take
antibiotics for 7 to 14 days.

It is important that you finish all the antibiotics prescribed. Finish them
even if you feel better before the end of your treatment. If you do not finish
the antibiotics, you may develop an infection that is harder to treat.

Let your provider know if you are pregnant.

Your provider may prescribe medicines to ease discomfort. Phenazopyridine
hydrochloride (Pyridium) is the most common of this type of drug. You will
still need to take antibiotics.

Everyone with a bladder infection should drink plenty of water.

Some women have repeat bladder infections. Your provider may suggest
treatments such as:

    * Taking a single dose of an antibiotic after sexual contact. These may prevent sexually transmitted infections.
    * Keeping a 3-day course of antibiotics. These will be given based on your symptoms.
    * Taking a single, daily dose of an antibiotic. This dose will prevent infections.

Over-the-counter products that increase acid in the urine, such as ascorbic
acid or cranberry juice, may be recommended. These medicines lower the
concentration of bacteria in the urine.

Follow-up may include urine cultures. These tests willÂ make sure the
bacterial infection is gone.

Lifestyle changes may help prevent some urinary tract infections.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most cases of cystitis are uncomfortable, but go away without complications
after treatment.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you:

    * Have symptoms of cystitis
    * Have already been diagnosed and symptoms get worse
    * Develop new symptoms such as fever, back pain, stomach pain, or vomiting

## Alternative Names

Uncomplicated urinary tract infection; UTI - acute cystitis; Acute bladder
infection; Acute bacterial cystitis

## Images

    * ![Female urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1122t.jpg)Female urinary tract
    * ![Male urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1123t.jpg)Male urinary tract

## References

Nicolle LE, Norrby SR. Approach to the patient with urinary tract infection.
In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 284.

Schaeffer AJ, Matulewicz RS, Klumpp DJ. Infections of the urinary tract. In:
Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_.
11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 12.

Sobel JD, Kaye D. Urinary tract infections. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser
MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 74.

## Review Date 6/28/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Urinary Tract
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UTI_thumb.jpg)Urinary Tract
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

