Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003586.htm    
                                Description: Urinary casts are tiny tube-shaped particles that can be found when urine is examined under the microscope during a test called urinalysis.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Urinary casts

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003586.htm

# Urinary casts

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Urinary casts are tiny tube-shaped particles that can be found when urine is
examined under the microscope during a test called urinalysis.

Urinary casts may be made up of white blood cells, red blood cells, kidney
cells, or substances such as protein or fat. The content of a cast can help
tell your health care provider whether your kidney is healthy or abnormal.

## How the Test is Performed

The urine sample you provide may need to be from your first morning urine. The
sample needs to be taken to the lab within 1 hour.

A clean-catch urine sample is needed. The clean-catch method is used to
prevent germs from the penis or vagina from getting into a urine sample. To
collect your urine, the provider may give you a special clean-catch kit that
contains a cleansing solution and sterile wipes. Follow instructions exactly
so that the results are accurate.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is needed.

## How the Test will Feel

The test involves only normal urination. There is no discomfort.

## Why the Test is Performed

Your provider may order this test to see if your kidneys are working properly.
It may also be ordered to check for certain conditions, such as:

    * Glomerular disease
    * Interstitial kidney disease
    * Kidney infections 

## Normal Results

The absence of cellular casts or presence of a few hyaline casts is normal.
The examples above are common measurements for results of these tests. Normal
value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs use
different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your provider about
the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may include:

    * Fatty casts are seen in people who have lipids in urine. This is most often a complication of nephrotic syndrome.
    * Granular casts are a sign of many types of kidney diseases.
    * Red blood cell casts mean there is a microscopic amount of bleeding from the kidney. They are seen in many kidney diseases.
    * Renal tubular epithelial cell casts reflect damage to tubule cells in the kidney. These casts are seen in conditions such as renal tubular necrosis, viral disease (such as CMV nephritis), and kidney transplant rejection.
    * Waxy casts can be found in people with advanced kidney disease and long-term (chronic) kidney failure.
    * White blood cell (WBC) casts are common with acute kidney infections and interstitial nephritis. 

Your provider will tell you more about your results.

## Risks

There are no risks with this test.

## Alternative Names

Hyaline casts; Granular casts; Renal tubular epithelial casts; Waxy casts;
Casts in the urine; Fatty casts; Red blood cell casts; White blood cell casts

## Images

    * ![Male urinary system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10022t.jpg)Male urinary system

## References

Fogazzi GB, Garigali G. Urinalysis. In: Johnson RJ, Feehally J, Floege J, eds.
_Comprehensive Clinical Nephrology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 4.

Riley RS, McPherson RA. Basic examination of the urine. In: McPherson RA,
Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory
Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 28.

## Review Date 7/15/2017

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Kidney Tests](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyTests_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Tests _Read more_

![Urinalysis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Urinalysis_thumb.jpg)Urinalysis
_Read more_

![Urinary Tract
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UTI_thumb.jpg)Urinary Tract
Infections _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

