Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000505.htm    
                                Description: A urinary tract infection is an infection of the urinary tract. This article discusses urinary tract infections in children.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Urinary tract infection - children

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000505.htm

# Urinary tract infection - children

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A urinary tract infection is an infection of the urinary tract. This article
discusses urinary tract infections in children.

The infection can affect different parts of the urinary tract, including the
bladder (cystitis), kidneys (pyelonephritis), and urethra, the tube that
empties urine from the bladder to the outside.

## Causes

Urinary tract infections (UTIs) can occur when bacteria get into the bladder
or the kidneys. These bacteria are common on the skin around the anus. They
can also be present near the vagina.

Normally, there are no bacteria in the urinary tract. However, some things
make it easier for bacteria to enter or stay in the urinary tract. These
include:

    * A problem in the urinary tract, called vesicoureteral reflux. This condition, which is most often present at birth, allows urine to flow back up into the ureters and kidneys.
    * Brain or nervous system illnesses (such as myelomeningocele, spinal cord injury, hydrocephalus) that make it harder to empty the bladder.
    * Bubble baths or tight-fitting clothes (girls).
    * Changes or birth defects in the structure of the urinary tract.
    * Not urinating often enough during the day.
    * Wiping from back (near the anus) to front after going to the bathroom. In girls, this can bring bacteria to the opening where the urine comes out. 

UTIs are more common in girls. They may occur often around age 3, as children
begin toilet training. Boys who are not circumcised have a slightly higher
risk of UTIs before age 1.

Children with a problem call reflux (vesicoureteral reflux or VUR) are more
likely to have infections.

    * Normally, when the bladder squeezes, no urine should flow back into the ureter.
    * Children may be born with this problem or may have other birth defects of the urinary system that cause reflux.

## Symptoms

Young children with UTIs may have a fever, poor appetite, vomiting, or no
symptoms at all.

Most UTIs in children only involve the bladder. If the infection spreads to
the kidneys (called pyelonephritis), it may be more serious.

Symptoms of a bladder infection in children include:

    * Blood in the urine
    * Cloudy urine
    * Foul or strong urine odor
    * Frequent or urgent need to urinate
    * General ill feeling (malaise)
    * Pain or burning with urination
    * Pressure or pain in the lower pelvis or lower back
    * Wetting problems after the child has been toilet trained 

Signs that the infection may have spread to the kidneys include:

    * Chills with shaking
    * Fever
    * Flushed, warm, or reddened skin
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Pain in the side (flank) or back
    * Severe pain in the belly area 

## Exams and Tests

A urine sample is needed to diagnose a UTI in a child. The sample is examined
under a microscope and sent to a lab for a urine culture.

It may be hard to get a urine sample in a child who is not toilet trained. The
test cannot be done using a wet diaper.

Ways to collect a urine sample in a very young child include:

    *  **Urine collection bag.** A special plastic bag is placed over the child's penis or vagina to catch the urine. This is not the best method because the sample may become contaminated.
    * Catheterized specimen urine culture. A plastic tube (catheter) placed into the tip of the penis in boys, or straight into the urethra in girls, collects urine right from the bladder.
    *  **Suprapubic urine collection.** A needle is placed through the skin of the lower abdomen and muscles into the bladder. It is used to collect urine. 

If this is your child's first UTI, imaging tests may be done to find the cause
of the infection or check for kidney damage. Tests may include:

    * Kidney ultrasound
    * X-ray taken while the child is urinating (voiding cystourethrogram) 

These studies may be done while the child has an infection. Most often, they
are done weeks to several months later.

Your health care provider will consider many things when deciding if and when
a special study is needed, including:

    * The child's age and history of other UTIs (infants and younger children usually need follow-up tests)
    * The severity of the infection and how well it responds to treatment
    * Other medical problems or physical defects the child may have 

## Treatment

In children, UTIs should be treated quickly with antibiotics to protect the
kidneys. Any child under 6 months old or who has other complications should
see a specialist right away.

Younger infants will most often need to stay in the hospital and be given
antibiotics through a vein. Older infants and children are treated with
antibiotics by mouth. If this is not possible, they may need to get treated in
the hospital.

Your child should drink plenty of fluids when being treated for a UTI.

Some children may be treated with antibiotics for periods as long as 6 months
to 2 years. This treatment is more likely when the child has had repeat
infections or vesicoureteral reflux.

After antibiotics are finished, your child's provider may ask you to bring
your child back to do another urine test. This may be needed to make sure that
bacteria are no longer in the bladder.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most children are cured with proper treatment. Most of the time, repeat
infections can be prevented.

Repeated infections that involve the kidneys can lead to long-term damage to
the kidneys.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if your child's UTI symptoms continue after treatment, or
come back more than twice in 6 months.

Call your provider if the child's symptoms get worse. Also call if your child
develops new symptoms, such as:

    * Back pain or flank pain
    * Bad-smelling, bloody, or discolored urine
    * Fever of 100.4Â°F (38Â°C) rectally in infants, or over 101Â°F (38.3Â°C) in children
    * Low back pain or abdominal pain below the belly button
    * Fever that does not go away
    * Very frequent urination, or need to urinate many times during the night
    * Vomiting 

## Prevention

Things you can do to prevent UTIs include:

    * Avoid giving your child bubble baths.
    * Have your child wear loose-fitting underpants and clothing.
    * Increase your child's intake of fluids.
    * Keep your child's genital area clean to prevent bacteria from entering through the urethra.
    * Teach your child to go the bathroom several times every day.
    * Teach your child to wipe the genital area from front to back to reduce the spread of bacteria. 

To prevent recurrent UTIs, the provider may recommend low-dose antibiotics
after the first symptoms have gone away.

## Alternative Names

UTI - children; Cystitis - children; Bladder infection - children; Kidney
infection - children; Pyelonephritis - children

## Images

    * ![Female urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1122t.jpg)Female urinary tract
    * ![Male urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1123t.jpg)Male urinary tract
    * ![Voiding cystourethrogram](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1144t.jpg)Voiding cystourethrogram
    * ![Vesicoureteral reflux](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19502t.jpg)Vesicoureteral reflux

## References

Elder JS. Urinary tract infections. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW,
Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 538.

Elder JS. Vesicoureteral reflux. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW,
Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 539.

Keren R, Shaikh N, Pohl H, et al. Risk factors for recurrent urinary tract
infection and renal scarring. _Pediatrics_. 2015;136(1):e13-e21. PMID:
26055855 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26055855.

Sobel JD, Kaye D. Urinary tract infections. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser
MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 74.

Williams G, Craig JC. Long-term antibiotics for preventing recurrent urinary
tract infection in children. _Cochrane Database Syst Rev_. 2011;(3):CD001534.
PMID: 21412872 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21412872.

## Review Date 2/13/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Urinary Tract
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UTI_thumb.jpg)Urinary Tract
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

