Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003832.htm    
                                Description: A radionuclide cystogram is a special imaging nuclear scan test. It checks how well your bladder and urinary tract work.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Radionuclide cystogram

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003832.htm

# Radionuclide cystogram

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A radionuclide cystogram is a special imaging nuclear scan test. It checks how
well your bladder and urinary tract work.

## How the Test is Performed

The specific procedure may vary slightly depending on the reason for the test.

You will lie down on a scanner table. After cleaning the urinary opening, the
health care provider will place a thin, flexible tube, called a catheter,
through the urethra and into the bladder. A liquid with radioactive material
flows into the bladder until the bladder is full or you say that your bladder
feels full.

The scanner detects radioactivity to check your bladder and urinary tract.
When the scan is to be done, depends on the suspected problem. You may be
asked to urinate into a urinal, bedpan, or towels while being scanned.

To test for incomplete bladder emptying, images may be taken with the bladder
full. Then you will be allowed to get up and urinate into the toilet and
return to the scanner. Images are taken immediately after emptying the
bladder.

## How to Prepare for the Test

There is no special preparation needed. You will need to sign a consent form.
You will be asked to wear a hospital gown. Remove jewelry and metal objects
before the scan.

## How the Test will Feel

You may feel some discomfort when the catheter is inserted. It may feel
difficult or embarrassing to urinate while being observed. You cannot feel the
radioisotope or the scanning.

After the scan, you may feel slight discomfort for 1 or 2 days when you
urinate. The urine may be slightly pink. Call your provider if you have
ongoing discomfort, a fever, or bright red urine.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is done to see how your bladder empties and fills. It can be used to
check for urine reflux or a blockage in urine flow. It is most often done to
evaluate people with urinary tract infections, particularly children.

## Normal Results

A normal value is no reflux or other abnormal urine flow, and no obstruction
to the flow of urine. The bladder empties completely.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be due to:

    * Abnormal bladder response to pressure. This could be due to a nerve problem or other disorder.
    * Back flow of urine (vesicoureteric reflux)
    * Blockage of the urethra (urethral obstruction). This is most commonly due to an enlarged prostate gland. 

## Risks

Risks are the same as for x-rays (radiation) and catheterization of the
bladder.

There is a small amount of radiation exposure with any nuclear scan (it comes
from the radioisotope, not the scanner). The exposure is less than with
standard x-rays. The radiation is very mild. Nearly all the radiation is gone
from your body in a short time. However, any radiation exposure is discouraged
for women who are or might be pregnant.

Risks for catheterization include urinary tract infection and (rarely) damage
to the urethra, bladder, or other nearby structures. There is also a risk of
blood in the urine or burning sensation with urination.

## Alternative Names

Nuclear bladder scan

## Images

    * ![Cystography](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9252t.jpg)Cystography

## References

Elder JS. Vesicoureteral reflux. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW,
Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 539.

Khoury AE, Bagli DJ. Vesicoureteral reflux. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin
AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 137.

## Review Date 1/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bladder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BladderCancerandDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bladder
Diseases _Read more_

![Nuclear Scans](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NuclearScans_thumb.jpg)Nuclear
Scans _Read more_

![Urinary Tract
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UTI_thumb.jpg)Urinary Tract
Infections _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

