Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/mucus-in-urine/    
                                Description: A mucus in urine test is part of a urinalysis, a test that measures different cells, chemicals, and other substances in urine. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Mucus in Urine

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/mucus-in-urine/

# Mucus in Urine

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## How do you test for mucus in urine?

Mucus is a thick, slimy substance that coats and moistens certain parts of the
body, including the nose, mouth, throat, and urinary tract. A small amount of
mucus in your urine is normal. An excess amount may indicate a urinary tract
infection (UTI) or other medical condition. A test called urinalysis can
detect whether there is too much mucus in your urine.

Other names: microscopic urine analysis, microscopic examination of urine,
urine test, urine analysis, UA

## What is it used for?

A mucus in urine test may be part of a urinalysis. A urinalysis may include a
visual check of your urine sample, tests for certain chemicals, and an
examination of urine cells under a microscope. A mucus in urine test is part
of a microscopic exam of urine.

## Why do I need a mucus in urine test?

A urinalysis is often part of a routine checkup. Your health care provider may
include a mucus in urine test in your urinalysis if you have symptoms of a
UTI. These include:

    * Frequent urge to urinate, but little urine is passed
    * Painful urination
    * Dark, cloudy, or reddish-colored urine
    * Bad smelling urine
    * Weakness
    * Fatigue

## What happens during a mucus in urine test?

Your health care provider will need to collect a sample of your urine. You
will receive a container to collect the urine and special instructions to make
sure that the sample is sterile. These instructions are often called the
"clean catch method." The clean catch method includes the following steps:

    1. Wash your hands.
    2. Clean your genital area with a cleansing pad given to you by your provider. Men should wipe the tip of their penis. Women should open their labia and clean from front to back.
    3. Start to urinate into the toilet.
    4. Move the collection container under your urine stream.
    5. Collect at least an ounce or two of urine into the container. The container will have markings to indicate the amounts.
    6. Finish urinating into the toilet.
    7. Return the sample container as instructed by your health care provider.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You don't need any special preparations for this test. If your health care
provider has ordered other urine or blood tests, you may need to fast (not eat
or drink) for several hours before the test. Your health care provider will
let you know if there are any special instructions to follow.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is no known risk to having a urinalysis or a test for mucus in urine.

## What do the results mean?

If your results show a small or moderate amount of mucus in your urine, it is
mostly likely due to normal discharge. A large amount of mucus may indicate
one of the following conditions:

    * A UTI
    * A sexually transmitted disease (STD)
    * Kidney stones
    * Irritable bowel syndrome
    * Bladder cancer

To learn what your results mean, talk to your health care provider.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about a mucus in urine test?

If a urinalysis is part of your regular checkup, your urine will be tested for
a variety of substances along with mucus. These include red and whiteÂ blood
cells, proteins, acid and sugar levels, and the concentration of particles in
your urine.

If you get frequent UTIs, your health care provider may recommend more
testing, as well as steps that may help prevent reinfection.

## References

    1. ClinLabNavigator. [Internet]. ClinLabNavigator; c2015. Urinalysis; [updated 2016 May 2; cited 2017 May 2]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: http://www.clinlabnavigator.com/urinalysis.html
    2. Hinkle J, Cheever K. Brunner & Suddarth's Handbook of Laboratory and Diagnostic Tests. 2nd Ed, Kindle. Philadelphia: Wolters Kluwer Health, Lippincott Williams & Wilkins; c2014. Urinalysis p. 508â9.
    3. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Urinalysis: The Test; [updated 2016 May 26; cited 2017 Mar 3]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/urinalysis/tab/test
    4. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Urinalysis: The Test Sample; [updated 2016 May 26; cited 2017 Mar 3]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/urinalysis/tab/sample/
    5. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Urinalysis: Three Types of Examinations; [cited 2017 Mar 3]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/urinalysis/ui-exams/start/2/
    6. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2017. Urinalysis: How you prepare; 2016 Oct 19 [cited 2017 Mar 3]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: http://www.mayoclinic.org/tests-procedures/urinalysis/details/how-you-prepare/ppc-20255388
    7. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2017. Urinalysis: What you can expect; 2016 Oct 19 [cited 2017 Mar 3]; [about 6 screens]. Available from: http://www.mayoclinic.org/tests-procedures/urinalysis/details/what-you-can-expect/rec-20255393
    8. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co., Inc.; c2017. Urinalysis [cited 2017 Mar 3]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.merckmanuals.com/home/kidney-and-urinary-tract-disorders/diagnosis-of-kidney-and-urinary-tract-disorders/urinalysis
    9. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms: mucus; [cited 2017 Mar 3]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/publications/dictionaries/cancer-terms?search=mucus
    10. National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Urinary Tract Infections (UTIs); May 2012 [cited 2017 Mar 3]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/urologic-diseases/urinary-tract-infections-utis
    11. Saint Francis Health System [Internet]. Tulsa (OK): Saint Francis Health System; c2016. Patient Information: Collecting a Clean Catch Urine Sample; [cited 2017 May 2]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.saintfrancis.com/lab/Documents/Collecting%20a%20Clean%20Catch%20Urine.pdf
    12. University of Iowa Stead Family Children's Hospital [Internet]. Iowa City (IA): University of Iowa; c2017. Urinary Tract Infections in Children; [cited 2017 May 2]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://uichildrens.org/health-library/urinary-tract-infections-children
    13. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2017. Health Encyclopedia: Microscopic Urinalysis; [cited 2017 Mar 3]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid;=urinanalysis_microscopic_exam
    14. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2017. Health Encyclopedia: Urinary Tract Infections (UTIs); [cited 2017 Mar 3]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=85&contentid;=P01497

## Related Health Topics

    * Urinalysis
    * Urinary Tract Infections

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Blood in Urine
    * Crystals in Urine
    * Glucose in Urine Test
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results
    * Protein in Urine

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 25 March 2020 Page last reviewed: 25 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

