Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000483.htm    
                                Description: A catheter is a tube in your bladder that removes urine from the body. This tube may stay in place for an extended period of time. If so, it is called an indwelling catheter. The urine drains from your    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Catheter-related UTI

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000483.htm

# Catheter-related UTI

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A catheter is a tube in your bladder that removes urine from the body. This
tube may stay in place for an extended period of time. If so, it is called an
indwelling catheter. The urine drains from your bladder into a bag outside
your body.

When you have an indwelling urinary catheter, you are more likely to develop a
urinary tract infection (UTI) in your bladder or kidneys.

## Causes

Many types of bacteria or fungi can cause a catheter-related UTI. This type of
UTI is harder to treat with common antibiotics.

Common reasons to have an indwelling catheter are:

    * Urine leakage (incontinence)
    * Not being able to empty your bladder
    * Surgery on your bladder, prostate, or vagina 

During a hospital stay, you may have an indwelling catheter:

    * Right after any type of surgery
    * If you are unable to urinate
    * If the amount of urine you produce needs to be monitored
    * If you are very ill and cannot control your urine

## Symptoms

Some of the common symptoms are:

    * Abnormal urine color or cloudy urine
    * Blood in the urine (hematuria)
    * Foul or strong urine odor
    * Frequent and strong urge to urinate
    * Pressure, pain, or spasms in your back or the lower part of your belly

Other symptoms that may occur with a UTI:

    * Chills
    * Fever
    * Flank pain
    * Mental changes or confusion (these may be the only signs of a UTI in an older person)

## Exams and Tests

Urine tests will check for infection:

    * Urinalysis may show white blood cells (WBCs) or red blood cells (RBCs).
    * Urine culture can help determine the type of bacteria in the urine. This will help your health care provider decide on the best antibiotic to use. 

YourÂ provider may recommend:

    * Ultrasound of the abdomen or pelvis
    * CT exam of the abdomen or pelvis

## Treatment

People who use this type of catheter will often have an abnormal test and
culture of urine from the bag. But even if the test is abnormal, you may not
have a UTI. This fact makes it harder for your provider to choose whether to
treat you.

If you also have symptoms of a UTI, your provider will likely treat you with
antibiotics.

If you do not have symptoms, your provider will treat you with antibiotics
only if:

    * You are pregnant
    * You are undergoing a procedure related to urinary tract

Most of the time, you can take antibiotics by mouth. It is very important to
take all of them, even if you feel better before you finish them. If your
infection is more severe, you may receive medicine into the vein. You may also
receive medicine to lessen bladder spasms.

You will need more fluids to help flush bacteria out of your bladder. If you
are treating yourself at home, this may mean drinking six to eight glasses of
fluid a day. You should ask your provider how much fluid is safe for you.
Avoid fluids that irritate your bladder, such as alcohol, citrus juices, and
drinks that contain caffeine.

After you have finished your treatment, you may have another urine test. This
test will make sure the germs are gone.

Your catheter will need to be changed when you have a UTI. If you have many
UTIs, your provider may remove the catheter. The provider may also:

    * Ask you to insert a urine catheter intermittently so you don't keepÂ one in all the time
    * Suggest other urine collection devices
    * Suggest surgery so you do not need a catheter
    * Use a special coated catheter that can reduce risk of infection
    * Prescribe a low-dose antibiotic or other antibacterial for you to take every day

This can help prevent bacteria from growing in your catheter.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

UTIs related to catheters can be harder to treat than other UTIs. Having many
infections over time may lead to kidney damage or kidney stones and bladder
stones.

Untreated UTI may develop kidney damage or more severe infections.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have:

    * Any symptoms ofÂ a UTI 
    * Back or flank pain
    * Fever
    * Vomiting

## Prevention

If you have an indwelling catheter, you must do these things to help prevent
infection:

    * Clean around the catheter opening every day.
    * Clean the catheter with soap and water every day.
    * Clean your rectal area thoroughly after every bowel movement.
    * Keep your drainage bag lower than your bladder. This prevents the urine in the bag from going back into your bladder.
    * Empty the drainage bag at least once every 8 hours, or whenever it is full.
    * Have your indwelling catheter changed at least once a month.
    * Wash your hands before and after you touch your urine.

## Alternative Names

UTI - catheter associated; Urinary tract infection - catheter associated;
Nosocomial UTI; Health care-associated UTI; Catheter-associated bacteriuria;
Hospital-acquired UTI

## Images

    * ![Bladder catheterization - female](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1065t.jpg)Bladder catheterization - female
    * ![Bladder catheterization - male](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1066t.jpg)Bladder catheterization - male

## References

Calfee DP. Prevention and control of health care-associated infections. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 282.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Catheter-associated
urinary tract infections (CAUTI). www.cdc.gov/hai/ca_uti/uti.html. Updated
October 16, 2015. Accessed June 25, 2018.

Hooton TM. Nosocomial urinary tract infections. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R,
Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap
304.

Nicolle LE, Norrby SR. Approach to the patient with urinary tract infection.
In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 284.

## Review Date 5/31/2018

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Urinary Tract
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UTI_thumb.jpg)Urinary Tract
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

