Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000521.htm    
                                Description: A urinary tract infection, or UTI, is an infection of the urinary tract. The infection can occur at different points in the urinary tract, including:     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Urinary tract infection - adults

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000521.htm

# Urinary tract infection - adults

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A urinary tract infection, or UTI, is an infection of the urinary tract. The
infection can occur at different points in the urinary tract, including:

    * Bladder -- An infection in the bladder is also called cystitis or a bladder infection.
    * Kidneys -- An infection of one or both kidneys is called pyelonephritis or a kidney infection.
    * Ureters -- The tubes that take urine from each kidney to the bladder are rarely the only site of infection.
    * Urethra -- An infection of the tube that empties urine from the bladder to the outside is called urethritis. 

## Causes

Most UTIs are caused by bacteria that enter the urethra and then the bladder.
The infection most commonly develops in the bladder, but can spread to the
kidneys. Most of the time, your body can get rid of these bacteria. However,
certain conditions increase the risk of having UTIs.

Women tend to get them more often because their urethra is shorter and closer
to the anus than in men. Because of this, women are more likely to get an
infection after sexual activity or when using a diaphragm for birth control.
Menopause also increases the risk of a UTI.

The following also increase your chances of developing a UTI:

    * Diabetes
    * Advanced age and conditions that affect personal care habits (such as Alzheimer disease and delirium)
    * Problems emptying the bladder completely
    * Having a urinary catheter
    * Bowel incontinence
    * Enlarged prostate, narrowed urethra, or anything that blocks the flow of urine
    * Kidney stones
    * Staying still (immobile) for a long period of time (for example, while you are recovering from a hip fracture)
    * Pregnancy
    * Surgery or other procedure involving the urinary tract 

## Symptoms

The symptoms of a bladder infection include:

    * Cloudy or bloody urine, which may have a foul or strong odor
    * Low grade fever in some people
    * Pain or burning with urination
    * Pressure or cramping in the lower abdomen or back
    * Strong need to urinate often, even right after the bladder has been emptied 

If the infection spreads to your kidneys, symptoms may include:

    * Chills and shaking or night sweats
    * Fatigue and a general ill feeling
    * Fever above 101Â°F (38.3Â°C)
    * Pain in the side, back, or groin
    * Flushed, warm, or reddened skin
    * Mental changes or confusion (in older people, these symptoms often are the only signs of a UTI)
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Very bad abdominal pain (sometimes) 

## Exams and Tests

Most of the time, you will need to provide a urine sample for the following
tests:

    * Urinalysis \-- This test is done to look for white blood cells, red blood cells, bacteria, and to test chemicals such as nitrites in the urine. This test can diagnose an infection most of the time.
    * Clean-catch urine culture \-- This test may be done to identify the bacteria and determine the best antibiotic for treatment. 

Blood tests such as complete blood count (CBC) and a blood culture may be done
as well.

You may also need the following tests to help rule out other problems in your
urinary system:

    * CT scan of the abdomen
    * Intravenous pyelogram (IVP)
    * Kidney scan
    * Kidney ultrasound
    * Voiding cystourethrogram

## Treatment

Your health care provider must first decide if the infection is just in the
bladder, or if it has spread to the kidneys and how severe it is.

MILD BLADDER AND KIDNEY INFECTIONS

    * Most of the time, you will need to take an antibiotic to prevent the infection from spreading to the kidneys.
    * For a simple bladder infection, you will take antibiotics for 3 days (women) or 7 to 14 days (men).
    * If you are pregnant or have diabetes, or have a mild kidney infection, you will most often take antibiotics for 7 to 14 days.
    * Finish all of the antibiotics, even if you feel better. If you do not finish the whole dose of medicine, the infection may return and be harder to treat later.
    * Always drink plenty of water when you have a bladder or kidney infection.
    * Tell your provider if you might be pregnant before taking these drugs. 

RECURRENT BLADDER INFECTIONS

Some women have repeated bladder infections. Your provider may suggest that
you:

    * Take a single dose of an antibiotic after sexual contact to prevent an infection.
    * Have a 3-day course of antibiotics at home to use if you develop an infection.
    * Take a single, daily dose of an antibiotic to prevent infections. 

MORE SEVERE KIDNEY INFECTIONS

You may need to go into the hospital if you are very sick and cannot take
medicines by mouth or drink enough fluids. You may also be admitted to the
hospital if you:

    * Are an older adult
    * Have kidney stones or changes in the anatomy of your urinary tract
    * Have recently had urinary tract surgery
    * Have cancer, diabetes, multiple sclerosis, spinal cord injury, or other medical problems
    * Are pregnant and have a fever or are otherwise ill 

At the hospital, you will receive fluids and antibiotics through a vein.

Some people have UTIs that do not go away with treatment or keep coming back.
These are called chronic UTIs. If you have a chronic UTI, you may need
stronger antibiotics or to take medicine for a longer time.

You may need surgery if the infection is caused by a problem with the
structure of the urinary tract.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most UTIs can be cured. Bladder infection symptoms most often go away within
24 to 48 hours after treatment begins. If you have a kidney infection, it may
take 1 week or longer for symptoms to go away.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Life-threatening blood infection (sepsis) -- The risk is greater among the young, very old adults, and people whose bodies cannot fight infections (for example, due to HIV or cancer chemotherapy).
    * Kidney damage or scarring.
    * Kidney infection.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your provider if you have symptoms of a UTI. Call right away if you
have signs of a possible kidney infection, such as:

    * Back or side pain
    * Chills
    * Fever
    * Vomiting 

Also call if UTI symptoms come back shortly after you have been treated with
antibiotics.

## Prevention

Diet and lifestyle changes may help prevent some UTIs. After menopause, a
woman may use estrogen cream around the vagina to reduce infections.

![Prevention of
cystitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19094.jpg)

## Alternative Names

Bladder infection - adults; UTI - adults; Cystitis - bacterial - adults;
Pyelonephritis - adults; Kidney infection - adults

## Images

    * ![Bladder catheterization - female](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1065t.jpg)Bladder catheterization - female
    * ![Bladder catheterization - male](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1066t.jpg)Bladder catheterization - male
    * ![Female urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1122t.jpg)Female urinary tract
    * ![Male urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1123t.jpg)Male urinary tract
    * ![Prevention of cystitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19094t.jpg)Prevention of cystitis

## References

Hooton TM. Nosocomial urinary tract infections. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R,
Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 304.

Nicolle LE, Norrby SR. Approach to the patient with urinary tract infection.
In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 284.

Schaeffer AJ, Matulewicz RS, Klumpp DJ. Infections of the urinary tract. In:
Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_.
11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 12.

Sobel JD, Kaye D. Urinary tract infections. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser
MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 74.

## Review Date 6/28/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Urinary Tract
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UTI_thumb.jpg)Urinary Tract
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

