Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007298.htm    
                                Description: Urine odor refers to the smell from your urine. Urine odor varies. Most of the time, urine does not have a strong smell if you are healthy and drink plenty of fluids.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Urine odor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007298.htm

# Urine odor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Urine odor refers to the smell from your urine. Urine odor varies. Most of the
time, urine does not have a strong smell if you are healthy and drink plenty
of fluids.

## Causes

Most changes in urine odor are not a sign of disease and go away in time. Some
foods and medicines, including vitamins, may affect your urine's odor. For
example, eating asparagus causes a distinct urine odor.

Foul-smelling urine may be due to bacteria. Sweet-smelling urine may be a sign
of uncontrolled diabetes or a rare disease of metabolism. Liver disease and
certain metabolic disorders may cause musty-smelling urine.

Some conditions that can cause changes in urine odor include:

    * Bladder fistula
    * Bladder infection
    * Body is low on fluids (concentrated urine can smell like ammonia) 
    * Poorly controlled diabetes (sweet smelling urine)
    * Liver failure
    * Ketonuria

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have signs of a urinary tract infection
with abnormal urine odor. These include:

    * Fever
    * Chills 
    * Burning pain with urination 
    * Back pain 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

You may have the following tests:

    * Urinalysis
    * Urine culture

## References

Fogazzi GB, Garigali G. Urinalysis. In: Feehally J, Floege J, Tonelli M,
Johnson RJ, eds. _Comprehensive Clinical Nephrology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 4.

Landry DW, Bazari H. Approach to the patient with renal disease. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2020:chap 106.

Riley RS, McPherson RA. Basic examination of urine. In: McPherson RA, Pincus
MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_.
23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 28.

## Review Date 7/11/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Metabolic
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MetabolicDisorders_thumb.jpg)Metabolic
Disorders _Read more_

![Urinalysis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Urinalysis_thumb.jpg)Urinalysis
_Read more_

![Urinary Tract
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UTI_thumb.jpg)Urinary Tract
Infections _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

