Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003783.htm    
                                Description: Retrograde cystography is a detailed x-ray of the bladder. Contrast dye is placed into the bladder through the urethra. The urethra is the tube that carries urine from the bladder to the outside of the    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Retrograde cystography

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003783.htm

# Retrograde cystography

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Retrograde cystography is a detailed x-ray of the bladder. Contrast dye is
placed into the bladder through the urethra. The urethra is the tube that
carries urine from the bladder to the outside of the body.

## How the Test is Performed

You will lie on a table. A numbing medicine is applied to the opening to your
urethra. A flexible tube (catheter) is inserted through your urethra into the
bladder. Contrast dye flows through the tube until your bladder is full or you
tell the technician that your bladder feels full.

When the bladder is full, you are placed in different positions so that x-rays
can be taken. A final x-ray is taken once the catheter is removed and you have
emptied your bladder. This reveals how well your bladder empties.

The test takes about 30 to 60 minutes.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You must sign an informed consent form. You must empty your bladder before the
test. You will be asked questions to determine if you may have an allergic
reaction to the contrast dye, or if you have a current infection that could
make inserting the catheter difficult.

## How the Test will Feel

You may feel some pressure when the catheter is inserted. You will feel an
urge to urinate when the contrast dye enters the bladder. The person
performing the test will stop the flow when the pressure becomes
uncomfortable. The urge to urinate will continue throughout the test.

After the test, the area where the catheter was placed may feel sore when you
urinate.

## Why the Test is Performed

You may need this test to examine your bladder for problems such as holes or
tears, or to find out why you have repeated bladder infections. It is also
used to look for problems such as:

    * Abnormal connections between bladder tissue and a nearby structure (bladder fistulae)
    * Bladder stones
    * Pouch-like sacs called diverticula on the walls of the bladder or urethra
    * Tumor of the bladder
    * Urinary tract infection
    * Vesicoureteric reflux

## Normal Results

The bladder appears normal.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be due to:

    * Bladder stones
    * Blood clots
    * Diverticula
    * Infection or inflammation
    * Lesions
    * Vesicoureteric reflux 

## Risks

There is some risk for infection from the catheter. Symptoms may include:

    * Burning during urination (after the first day)
    * Chills
    * Decreased blood pressure (hypotension)
    * Fever
    * Increased heart rate
    * Increased breathing rate 

The amount of radiation exposure is similar to that of other x-rays. As with
any radiation exposure, nursing or pregnant women should only have this test
if it is determined that the benefits outweigh the risks.

## Considerations

In males, testicles are shielded from the x-rays.

This test is not performed very often. It is most often done along with CT
scan imaging for better resolution. Voiding cystourethrogram (VCUG) or
cystoscopy is used more often.

## Alternative Names

Cystography - retrograde; Cystogram

## Images

    * ![Vesicoureteral reflux](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19502t.jpg)Vesicoureteral reflux
    * ![Cystography](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9252t.jpg)Cystography

## References

Bishoff JT, Rastinehad AR. Urinary tract imaging: basic principles of computed
tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, and plain film. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi
LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 2.

Davis JE, Silverman MA. Urologic procedures. In: Roberts JR, Custalow CB,
Thomsen TW, eds. _Roberts and Hedges' Clinical Procedures in Emergency
Medicine and Acute Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 55.

Zagoria RJ, Dyer R, Brady C. An introduction to radiologic methods. In:
Zagoria RJ, Dyer R, Brady C, eds. _Genitourinary Imaging: The Requisites_. 3rd
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 1.

## Review Date 1/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bladder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BladderCancerandDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bladder
Diseases _Read more_

![Urinary Tract
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UTI_thumb.jpg)Urinary Tract
Infections _Read more_

![X-Rays](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Xray_thumb.jpg)X-Rays _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

