Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000520.htm    
                                Description: Most of the time, your urine is sterile. This means there is no bacteria growing. On the other hand, if you have symptoms of a bladder or kidney infection, bacteria will be present and growing in your    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Asymptomatic bacteriuria

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000520.htm

# Asymptomatic bacteriuria

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Most of the time, your urine is sterile. This means there is no bacteria
growing. On the other hand, if you have symptoms of a bladder or kidney
infection, bacteria will be present and growing in your urine.

Sometimes, your health care provider may check your urine for bacteria, even
when you do not have any symptoms. If enough bacteria are found in your urine,
you have asymptomatic bacteriuria.

## Causes

Asymptomatic bacteriuria occurs in a small number of healthy people. It
affects women more often than men. The reasons for the lack of symptoms are
not well understood.

You are more likely to have this problem if you:

    * Have a urinary catheter in place
    * Are female
    * Are pregnant
    * Are sexually active (in females)
    * Have long-term diabetes and are female
    * Are an older adult
    * Have recently had a surgical procedure in your urinary tract

## Symptoms

There are no symptoms of this problem.

If you have these symptoms, you may have a urinary tract infection, but you DO
NOT have asymptomatic bacteriuria.

    * Burning during urination
    * Increased urgency to urinate
    * Increased frequency of urination

## Exams and Tests

To diagnose asymptomatic bacteriuria, a urine sample must be sent for a urine
culture. Most people with no urinary tract symptoms do not need this test.

You may need a urine culture done as a screening test, even without symptoms,
if:

    * You are pregnant
    * You have a surgery or procedure planned that involves bladder, prostate, or other parts of the urinary tract
To make the diagnosis of asymptomatic bacteriuria, the culture must show a
large growth of bacteria.

    * In men, only one culture needs to show growth of bacteria
    * In women, two different cultures must show growth of bacteria

## Treatment

Most people who have bacteria growing in their urine, but no symptoms, do not
need treatment. This is because the bacteria are not causing any harm. In
fact, treating most people with this problem may make it harder to treat
infections in the future.

However, for some people getting a urinary tract infection is more likely or
may cause more severe problems. As a result, treatment with antibiotics may be
needed if:

    * You are pregnant.
    * You recently had a kidney transplant.
    * You are scheduled for surgery involving the prostate gland or the bladder.
    * You have kidney stones that have caused an infection.  

    * Your young child has reflux (backward movement of urine from the bladder into ureters or kidneys).

Without symptoms being present, even people who are older adults, have
diabetes, or have a catheter in place do not need treatment.

## Possible Complications

If it is not treated, you may have a kidney infection if you are at high risk.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have:

    * Difficulty emptying your bladder
    * Fever
    * Flank or back pain
    * Pain with urination

You will need to be checked for a bladder or kidney infection.

## Alternative Names

Screening - asymptomatic bacteria

## Images

    * ![Male urinary system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10022t.jpg)Male urinary system
    * ![Vesicoureteral reflux](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19502t.jpg)Vesicoureteral reflux

## References

Dull RB, Friedman SK, Risoldi ZM, Rice EC, Starlin RC, Destache CJ.
Antimicrobial treatment of asymptomatic bacteriuria in noncatheterized adults:
a systematic review. _Pharmacotherapy_. 2014;34(9):941-960. PMID: 24807583
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24807583.

Schaeffer AJ, Matulewicz RS, Klumpp DJ. Infections of the urinary tract. In:
Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_.
11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 12.

Zalmanovici Trestioreanu A, Lador A, Sauerbrun-Cutler MT, Leibovici L.
Antibiotics for asymptomatic bacteriuria. _Cochrane Database Syst Rev_.
2015;4:CD009534. PMID: 25851268 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25851268.

## Review Date 6/28/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Urinary Tract
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UTI_thumb.jpg)Urinary Tract
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

