Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001274.htm    
                                Description: Perirenal abscess is a pocket of pus around one or both kidneys. It is caused by an infection.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Perirenal abscess

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001274.htm

# Perirenal abscess

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Perirenal abscess is a pocket of pus around one or both kidneys. It is caused
by an infection.

## Causes

Most perirenal abscesses are caused by urinary tract infections that start in
the bladder. They then spread to the kidney, and to the area around the
kidney. Surgery in the urinary tract or reproductive system or a bloodstream
infection can also lead to a perirenal abscess.

The biggest risk factor for perirenal abscess is kidney stones, by blockage of
urine flow. This provides a place for an infection to grow. Bacteria tend to
stick to the stones and antibiotics cannot kill the bacteria there.

Stones are found in 20% to 60% of people with perirenal abscess. Other risk
factors for perirenal abscess include:

    * Diabetes
    * Having an abnormal urinary tract
    * Trauma
    * IV drug use 

## Symptoms

Symptoms of perirenal abscess include:

    * Chills
    * Fever
    * Pain in the flank (side of the abdomen) or abdomen, which may extend to the groin or down the leg
    * Sweating 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will examine you. You may have tenderness in the back
or abdomen.

Tests include:

    * Blood culture
    * CT scan of the abdomen
    * Ultrasound of the abdomen
    * Urinalysis
    * Urine culture 

## Treatment

To treat perirenal abscess, the pus can be drained through a catheter that is
placed through the skin or with surgery. Antibiotics should also be given, at
first through a vein (IV), then can switch to pills when infection starts
improving.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

In general, quick diagnosis and treatment of perirenal abscess should lead to
a good outcome. Kidney stones must be treated to avoid further infections.

In rare cases, the infection can spread beyond the kidney area and into the
bloodstream. This can be deadly.

## Possible Complications

If you have kidney stones, the infection may not go away.

You may need to have the infection surgically removed.

You may have to have the kidney removed if infection cannot be cleared or is
recurrent. This is rare.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have a history of kidney stones and develop:

    * Abdominal pain
    * Burning with urination
    * Chills
    * Fever
    * Urinary tract infection 

## Prevention

If you have kidney stones, ask your provider about the best way to treat them
to avoid a perirenal abscess. If you undergo urologic surgery, keep the
surgical area as clean as possible.

## Alternative Names

Perinephric abscess

## Images

    * ![Kidney anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1101t.jpg)Kidney anatomy
    * ![Kidney - blood and urine flow](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1704t.jpg)Kidney - blood and urine flow

## References

Chambers HF. Staphylococcal infections. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 288.

Nicolle LE. Urinary tract infection in adults. In: Skorecki K, Chertow GM,
Marsden PA, Taal MW, Yu ASL, eds. _Brenner and Rector's The Kidney_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 37.

Schaeffer AJ, Matulewicz RS, Klumpp DJ. Infections of the urinary tract. In:
Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_.
11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 12.

## Review Date 1/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Antibiotics](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AntibioticsAndAbscess_thumb.jpg)Abscess
_Read more_

![Kidney
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyDisease_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Diseases _Read more_

![Urinary Tract
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UTI_thumb.jpg)Urinary Tract
Infections _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

