Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000086.htm    
                                Description: When you have diabetes, you should have good control of your blood sugar. If your blood sugar is not controlled, serious health problems called complications can happen to your body. Learn how to manage    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Managing your blood sugar

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000086.htm

# Managing your blood sugar

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

When you have diabetes, you should have good control of your blood sugar. If
your blood sugar is not controlled, serious health problems called
complications can happen to your body. Learn how to manage your blood sugar so
that you can stay as healthy as possible.

## Take Control of Your Diabetes

Know the basic steps for managing your diabetes. Poorly managed diabetes can
lead to many health problems.

Know how to:

    * Recognize and treat low blood sugar (hypoglycemia)
    * Recognize and treat high blood sugar (hyperglycemia)
    * Plan healthy meals
    * Monitor your blood sugar (glucose)
    * Take care of yourself when you are sick
    * Find, buy, and store diabetes supplies
    * Get the checkups you need 

If you take insulin, you should also know how to:

    * Give yourself insulin
    * Adjust your insulin doses and the foods you eat to manage your blood sugar during exercise and on sick days 

You should also live a healthy lifestyle.

    * Exercise at least 30 minutes a day, 5 days a week. Do muscle strengthening exercises 2 or more days a week.
    * Avoid sitting for more than 30 minutes at a time.
    * Try speed walking, swimming, or dancing. Pick an activity you enjoy. Always check with your health care provider before starting any new exercise plans.
    * Follow your meal plan. Every meal is an opportunity to make a good choice for your diabetes management. 

Take your medicines the way your provider recommends.

## Check Your Blood Sugar Often

Checking your blood sugar levels often and writing down, or using an app to
track the results will tell you how well you are managing your diabetes. Talk
to your doctor and diabetes educator about how often you should check your
blood sugar.

    * Not everyone with diabetes needs to check their blood sugar every day. But some people may need to check it many times a day.
    * If you have type 1 diabetes, check your blood sugar at least 4 times a day. 

Usually, you will test your blood sugar before meals and at bedtime. You may
also check your blood sugar:

    * After you eat out, particularly if you have eaten foods you don't normally eat
    * If you feel sick
    * Before and after you exercise
    * If you have a lot of stress
    * If you eat too much
    * If you are taking new medicines that can affect your blood sugar 

Keep a record for yourself and your provider. This will be a big help if you
are having problems managing your diabetes. It will also tell you what works
and what doesn't work, to keep your blood sugar under control. Write down:

    * The time of day
    * Your blood sugar level
    * The amount of carbohydrates or sugar you ate
    * The type and dose of your diabetes medicines or insulin
    * The type of exercise you do and for how long
    * Any unusual events, such as feeling stressed, eating different foods, or being sick 

Many glucose meters let you store this information.

You and your provider should set a target goal for your blood sugar levels for
different times during the day. If your blood sugar is higher than your goals
for 3 days and you don't know why, call your provider.

Random blood sugar values are often not that useful to your provider and this
can be frustrating to people with diabetes. Often fewer values with more
information (meal description and time, exercise description and time,
medication dose and time) related to the blood sugar value are much more
useful to help guide medication decisions and dose adjustments.

## Recommended Blood Sugar Targets

For people with type 1 diabetes, the American Diabetes Association recommends
that blood sugar targets be based on a person's needs and goals. Talk to your
doctor and diabetes educator about these goals. A general guideline is:

Before meals, your blood sugar should be:

    * From 90 to 130 mg/dL (5.0 to 7.2 mmol/L) for adults
    * From 90 to 130 mg/dL (5.0 to 7.2 mmol/L) for children, 13 to 19 years old
    * From 90 to 180 mg/dL (5.0 to 10.0 mmol/L) for children, 6 to 12 years old
    * From 100 to 180 mg/dL (5.5 to 10.0 mmol/L) for children under 6 years old 

After meals (1 to 2 hours after eating), your blood sugar should be:

    * Less than 180 mg/dL (10 mmol/L) for adults 

At bedtime, your blood sugar should be:

    * From 90 to 150 mg/dL (5.0 to 8.3 mmol/L) for adults
    * From 90 to 150 mg/dL (5.0 to 8.3 mmol/L) for children, 13 to 19 years old
    * From 100 to 180 mg/dL (5.5 to 10.0 mmol/L) for children, 6 to 12 years old
    * From 110 to 200 mg/dL (6.1 to 11.1 mmol/L) for children under 6 years old 

For people with type 2 diabetes, the American Diabetes Association also
recommends that blood sugar targets be individualized. Talk to your doctor and
diabetes educator about your goals.

In general, before meals, your blood sugar should be:

    * From 70 to 130 mg/dL (3.9 to 7.2 mmol/L) for adults 

After meals (1 to 2 hours after eating), your blood sugar should be:

    * Less than 180 mg/dL (10.0 mmol/L) for adults 

## What to do When Your Blood Sugar is High or Low

High blood sugar can harm you. If your blood sugar is high, you need to know
how to bring it down. Here are some questions to ask yourself if your blood
sugar is high.

    * Are you eating too much or too little? Have you been following your diabetes meal plan?
    * Are you taking your diabetes medicines correctly?
    * Has your provider (or insurance company) changed your medicines?
    * If you take insulin, have you been taking the correct dose? Are you changing your syringes or pen needles?
    * Are you afraid of having low blood sugar? Is that causing you to eat too much or take too little insulin or other diabetes medicine?
    * Have you injected insulin into a firm, numb, bumpy, or overused area? Have you been rotating sites?
    * Have you been less or more active than usual?
    * Do you have a cold, the flu, or another illness?
    * Have you had more stress than usual?
    * Have you been checking your blood sugar every day?
    * Have you gained or lost weight? 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if your blood sugar is too high or too low and you do not
understand why. When your blood sugar is in your target range, you will feel
better and your health will be better.

## Alternative Names

Hyperglycemia - control; Hypoglycemia - control; Diabetes - blood sugar
control; Blood glucose - managing

## Images

    * ![Manage your blood sugar](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22870t.jpg)Manage your blood sugar
    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9879t.jpg)Blood test
    * ![Glucose test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18029t.jpg)Glucose test

## References

American Diabetes Association. 6. Glycemic targets: standards of medical care
in diabetes-2018. _Diabetes Care_. 2018;41(Suppl 1):S55-S64. PMID: 29222377
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29222377.

Davis SN, Lamos EM, Younk LM. Hypoglycemia and hypoglycemic syndromes. In:
Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and
Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 47.

Dungan KM. Management of type 2 diabetes mellitus. In: Jameson JL, De Groot
LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 48.

## Read More

    * Leg or foot amputation
    * Type 1 diabetes
    * Type 2 diabetes

## Patient Instructions

    * ACE inhibitors
    * Cholesterol and lifestyle
    * Diabetes and exercise 
    * Diabetes eye care
    * Diabetes - foot ulcers
    * Diabetes - keeping active 
    * Diabetes - preventing heart attack and stroke
    * Diabetes - taking care of your feet
    * Diabetes tests and checkups
    * Diabetes - when you are sick
    * Dietary fats explained
    * Fast food tips
    * Foot amputation - discharge
    * Heart disease - risk factors
    * Leg amputation - discharge
    * Leg or foot amputation - dressing change
    * Low blood sugar - self-care
    * Managing your blood sugar
    * Mediterranean diet
    * Phantom limb pain
    * Type 2 diabetes - what to ask your doctor

## Review Date 5/17/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, Associate Professor of Medicine, Division of
Metabolism, Endocrinology & Nutrition, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Blood Sugar

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

