Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000941.htm    
                                Description: Glycemic index (GI) is a measure of how quickly a food can make your blood sugar (glucose) rise. Only foods that contain carbohydrates have a GI. Foods such as oils, fats, and meats do not have a GI.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Glycemic index and diabetes

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000941.htm

# Glycemic index and diabetes

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Glycemic index (GI) is a measure of how quickly a food can make your blood
sugar (glucose) rise. Only foods that contain carbohydrates have a GI. Foods
such as oils, fats, and meats do not have a GI.

In general, low GI foods increase glucose slowly in your body. Foods with a
high GI increase blood glucose quickly.

If you have diabetes, high GI foods can make it harder to control diabetes.

## Information

Not all carbohydrates work the same in the body. Some trigger a quick spike in
blood sugar, while others work more slowly, keeping blood sugar more even. The
glycemic index addresses these differences by assigning a number to foods that
reflects how quickly they increase blood glucose compared to pure glucose
(sugar).

The GI scale goes from 0 to 100. Pure glucose has the highest GI and is given
a value of 100.

Eating low GI foods can help you gain tighter control over your blood sugar.
Paying attention to the GI of foods can be another tool to help manage
diabetes, along with carbohydrate counting. Following a low-GI diet also may
help with weight loss.

## Glycemic Index of Certain Foods

Low GI foods (0 to 55):

    * Bulgar, barley
    * Pasta, parboiled (converted) rice
    * Quinoa
    * High-fiber bran cereal
    * Oatmeal, steel-cut or rolled
    * Carrots, non-starchy vegetables, greens
    * Apples, oranges, grapefruit, and many other fruits
    * Most nuts, legumes, and beans
    * Milk and yogurt 

Moderate GI foods (56 to 69):

    * Pita bread, rye bread
    * Couscous
    * Brown rice
    * Raisins 

High GI foods (70 and higher):

    * White bread and bagels
    * Most processed cereals and instant oatmeal, including bran flakes
    * Most snack foods
    * Potatoes
    * White rice
    * Honey
    * Watermelon, pineapple 

## Meal Planning with the Glycemic Index

When planning your meals:

    * Choose foods that have a low to medium GI.
    * When eating a high GI food, combine it with low GI foods to balance the effect on your glucose levels. The GI of a food changes when you combine it with other foods.

The GI of a food is affected by certain factors, such as the ripeness of a
piece of fruit. So you need to think about more than the GI of a food when
making healthy choices. When choosing meals, it's a good idea to keep these
issues in mind.

    * Portion size still matters because calories still matter, and so do carbohydrates. You need to keep an eye on the portion size and number of carbohydrates in the meal you are having, even if it has low GI foods.
    * In general, processed foods have a higher GI. For example, fruit juice and instant potatoes have a higher GI than whole fruit and whole baked potato.
    * Cooking can affect the GI of a food. For example, al dente pasta has lower GI than soft-cooked pasta.
    * Foods higher in fat or fiber tend to have a lower GI.
    * Certain foods from the same class of foods can have different GI values. For example, converted long-grain white rice has a lower GI than brown rice. And short-grain white rice has a higher GI than brown rice. Likewise, quick oats or grits have high a GI but whole oats and whole-grain breakfast cereals have a lower GI.
    * Choose a variety of healthy foods keeping in mind the nutritious value of the whole meal as well as the GI of foods.
    * Some high GI foods are high in nutrients. So balance these with lower GI foods. 

For many people with diabetes, carbohydrate counting, or carb counting, helps
limit carbohydrates to a healthy amount. Carb counting along with choosing
healthy foods and maintaining a healthy weight are enough to control diabetes
and lower the risk for complications. But if you have trouble controlling your
blood sugar or want tighter control, you should talk with your health care
provider about using the glycemic index as part of your action plan.

## References

American Diabetes Association. 5. Lifestyle management: _standards of medical
care in diabetes - 2019_. _Diabetes Care_. 2019;42(Suppl 1):S46-S60. PMID:
30559231 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30559231.

American Diabetes Association website. Glycemic index and diabetes.
www.diabetes.org/glycemic-index-and-diabetes. Accessed August 13, 2019.

MacLeod J, Franz MJ, Handu D, et al. Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics
Nutrition practice guideline for type 1 and type 2 diabetes in adults:
nutrition intervention evidence reviews and recommendations. _J Acad Nutr
Diet_. 2017;117(10)1637-1658. PMID: 28527747
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28527747.

## Review Date 10/13/2018

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.
08-13-19: Editorial update.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Blood Sugar
    * Diabetic Diet

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

