Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000324.htm    
                                Description: If you have diabetes, check your blood sugar level as often as instructed by your health care provider. Record the results. This will tell you how well you are managing your diabetes. Checking blood sugar    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Home blood sugar testing

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000324.htm

# Home blood sugar testing

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

If you have diabetes, check your blood sugar level as often as instructed by
your health care provider. Record the results. This will tell you how well you
are managing your diabetes. Checking blood sugar helps you stay on track with
your nutrition and activity plans.

The most important reasons to check your blood sugar at home are to:

    * Monitor if the diabetes medicines you're taking increase your risk of low blood sugar (hypoglycemia).
    * Use the blood sugar number before a meal to determine the dose of insulin (or other medicines) you are planning to take.
    * Use the blood sugar number to help you make healthy nutrition and activity choices to regulate your blood sugar.

## Check Your Blood Sugar Often

Not everyone with diabetes needs to check their blood sugar every day. Others
need to check it many times a day.

Usual times to test your blood sugar are before meals and at bedtime. Your
provider may ask you to check your blood sugar 2 hours after a meal or even
sometimes in the middle of the night. Ask your provider when you should check
your blood sugar.

Other times to check your blood sugar may be:

    * If you are having symptoms of low blood sugar (hypoglycemia)
    * After you eat out, particularly if you have eaten foods you don't normally eat
    * If you feel sick
    * Before or after you exercise
    * If you have been under a lot of stress
    * If you eat too much or skip meals or snacks
    * If you are taking new medicines, took too much insulin or diabetes medicine by mistake, or took your medicine at the wrong time
    * If your blood sugar has been higher or lower than normal
    * If you are drinking alcohol 

## How to Prepare for the Test

Have all test items within reach before starting. Timing is important. Clean
the needle prick area with soap and water. Completely dry the skin before
pricking. Do not use an alcohol pad or swab to clean the skin. Alcohol is not
effective in removing sugar residue from the skin.

## How the Test is Done

You can buy a testing kit from a pharmacy without a prescription. Your
provider can help you choose the right kit, set up the meter, and teach you
how to use it.

Most kits have:

    * Test strips
    * Small needles (lancets) that fit into a spring-loaded plastic device
    * A logbook for recording your numbers that can be downloaded and viewed at home or at your provider's office

To do the test, prick your finger with the needle and place a drop of blood on
a special strip. This strip measures how much glucose is in your blood. Some
monitors use blood from areas of the body other than the fingers, reducing
discomfort. The meter shows your blood sugar results as a number on a digital
display. If your vision is poor, talking glucose meters are available so that
you don't have to read the numbers.

Be aware that no meter or strip is accurate 100% of the time. If your blood
sugar value is unexpectedly high or low, measure again with a new strip. Do
not use strips if the container has been left open or if the strip has gotten
wet.

## Keep a Record

Keep a record for yourself and your provider. This will be a big help if you
are having problems controlling your diabetes. It will also tell you what you
did when you were able to control your diabetes. To get the most help with
controlling your blood sugar, write down:

    * The time of day
    * Your blood sugar level
    * The amount of carbohydrates you ate
    * The type and dose of your diabetes medicine
    * The type of any exercise you do and how long you exercise for
    * Anything unusual, such as stress, eating different foods, or being sick 

Blood sugar meters can store hundreds of readings. Most types of meters can
save readings to your computer or smart phone. This makes it easy to look back
at your record and see where you may have had problems.

Always bring your meter when you visit your provider. You and your provider
can look at your blood sugar patterns together and make adjustments to your
medicines, if needed.

You and your provider should set a target goal for your blood sugar level for
different times of the day. If your blood sugar is higher than your goals for
3 straight days and you don't know why, call your provider.

## Alternative Names

Diabetes - home glucose testing; Diabetes - home blood sugar testing

## Images

    * ![Manage your blood sugar](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22870t.jpg)Manage your blood sugar

## References

American Diabetes Association. 6. Glycemic targets: standards of medical care
in diabetes-2018. _Diabetes Care_. 2018;41(Suppl 1):S55-S64. PMID: 29222377
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29222377.

American Diabetes Association. 4. Lifestyle management: standards of medical
care in diabetes-2018. _Diabetes Care_. 2018;41(Suppl 1):S38-S50. PMID:
29222375 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29222375.

Dungan KM. Management of type 2 diabetes mellitus. In: Jameson JL, De Groot
LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 48.

Retnakaran R, Zinman B. Treatment of type 1 diabetes mellitus in adults. In:
Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and
Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 44.

## Review Date 8/19/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, Associate Professor of Medicine, Division of
Metabolism, Endocrinology & Nutrition, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Blood Sugar

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

