Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000966.htm    
                                Description: Estimated average glucose (eAG) is an estimated average of your blood sugar (glucose) levels over a period of 2 to 3 months. It is based on your A1C blood test results.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Estimated average glucose (eAG)

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000966.htm

# Estimated average glucose (eAG)

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Estimated average glucose (eAG) is an estimated average of your blood sugar
(glucose) levels over a period of 2 to 3 months. It is based on your A1C blood
test results.

Knowing your eAG helps you predict your blood sugar levels over a time. It
shows how well you are controlling your diabetes.

## Information

Glycated hemoglobin or A1C is a blood test that shows the average level of
blood sugar over the previous 2 to 3 months. A1C is reported as a percent.

eAG is reported in mg/dL (mmol/L). This is the same measurement used in home
blood sugar meters.

eAG relates directly to your A1C results. Because it uses the same units as
home meters, eAG makes it easier for people to understand their A1C values.
Health care providers now use eAG to talk with their patients about A1C
results.

Knowing your eAg can help you:

    * Track your blood glucose levels over time
    * Confirm self-test readings
    * Better manage diabetes by seeing how your choices affect blood sugar 

You and your provider can see how well your diabetes care plan is working by
looking at your eAG readings.

## Understanding Your eAG Readings

The normal value for eAG is between 70 mg/dl and 126 mg/dl (A1C: 4% to 6%). A
person with diabetes should aim for an eAG less than 154 mg/dl (A1C < 7%) to
lower the risk for diabetes complications.

The results of an eAG test may not match your average of day-to-day blood
sugar tests you have been taking at home on your glucose meter. This is
because you are likely to check your sugar levels before meals or when your
blood sugar levels are low. But it does not show your blood sugar at other
times of the day. So, the average of your results on your meter may be
different than your eAG.

Your doctor should never tell you what your blood sugar values are based on
the eAG because the range of average blood glucose for any individual person
is very broad for each A1c level.

There are many medical conditions and medicines that change the relationship
between A1c and eAG. Do not use eAG to evaluate your diabetes control if you:

    * Have conditions such as kidney disease, sickle cell disease, anemia, or thalassemia
    * Are taking certain medicines, such as dapsone, erythropoietin, or iron 

## Alternative Names

eAG

## References

American Diabetes Association website. A1C and eAG. www.diabetes.org/living-
with-diabetes/treatment-and-care/blood-glucose-control/a1c. Updated September
29, 2014. Accessed August 17, 2018.

American Diabetes Association website. All about blood glucose.
professional.diabetes.org/sites/professional.diabetes.org/files/media/All_about_Blood_Glucose.pdf.
Accessed August 17, 2018.

American Diabetes Association. 6. Glycemic targets: _Standards of Medical Care
in Diabetes_ -2018. _Diabetes Care_. 2018;41(Suppl 1):S55-S64. PMID: 29222377
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29222377.

## Review Date 1/24/2019

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, Associate Professor of Medicine, Division of
Metabolism, Endocrinology & Nutrition, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Blood Sugar

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

