Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007562.htm    
                                Description: A glucose screening test is a routine test during pregnancy that checks a pregnant woman    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Glucose screening tests during pregnancy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007562.htm

# Glucose screening tests during pregnancy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A glucose screening test is a routine test during pregnancy that checks a
pregnant woman's blood glucose (sugar) level.

Gestational diabetes is high blood sugar (diabetes) that starts or is found
during pregnancy.

## How the Test is Performed

TWO-STEP TESTING

During the first step, you will have a glucose screening test:

    * You DO NOT need to prepare or change your diet in any way.
    * You will be asked to drink a liquid that contains glucose.
    * Your blood will be drawn 1 hour after you drink the glucose solution to check your blood glucose level.

If your blood glucose from the first step is too high, you will need to come
back for a 3-hour glucose tolerance test. For this test:

    * DO NOT eat or drink anything (other than sips of water) for 8 to 14 hours before your test. (You also cannot eat during the test.)
    * You will be asked to drink a liquid that contains glucose, 100 grams (g) .
    * You will have blood drawn before you drink the liquid, and again 3 more times every 60 minutes after you drink it. Each time, your blood glucose level will be checked.
    * Allow at least 3 hours for this test.

ONE-STEP TESTING

You need to go to the lab one time for a 2-hour glucose tolerance test. For
this test:

    * DO NOT eat or drink anything (other than sips of water) for 8 to 14 hours before your test. (You also cannot eat during the test.)
    * You will be asked to drink a liquid that contains glucose (75 g).
    * You will have blood drawn before you drink the liquid, and again 2 more times every 60 minutes after you drink it. Each time, your blood glucose level will be checked.
    * Allow at least 2 hours for this test. 

## How to Prepare for the Test

For either the two-step test or one-step test, eat your normal food in the
days before your test. Ask your health care provider if any of the medicines
you take can affect your test results.

## How the Test will Feel

Most women DO NOT have side effects from the glucose tolerance test. Drinking
the glucose solution is similar to drinking a very sweet soda. Some women may
feel nauseated, sweaty, or lightheaded after they drink the glucose solution.
Serious side effects from this test are very uncommon.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test checks for gestational diabetes. Most pregnant women have a glucose
screening test between 24 and 28 weeks of pregnancy. The test may be done
earlier if you have a high glucose level in your urine during your routine
prenatal visits, or if you have a high risk for diabetes.

Women who have a low risk for diabetes may not have the screening test. To be
low-risk, all of these statements must be true:

    * You have never had a test that showed your blood glucose was higher than normal.
    * Your ethnic group has a low risk for diabetes.
    * You DO NOT have any first-degree relatives (parent, sibling, or child) with diabetes.
    * You are younger than 25 years old and have a normal weight.
    * You have not had any bad outcomes during an earlier pregnancy. 

## Normal Results

TWO-STEP TESTING

Most of the time, a normal result for the glucose screening test is a blood
sugar that is equal to or less than 140 mg/dL (7.8 mmol/L) 1 hour after
drinking the glucose solution. A normal result means you DO NOT have
gestational diabetes.

Note: mg/dL means milligrams per deciliter and mmol/L means millimoles per
liter. These are two ways to indicate how much glucose is in the blood.

If your blood glucose is higher than 140 mg/dL (7.8 mmol/L), the next step is
the oral glucose tolerance test. This test will show if you have gestational
diabetes. Most women (about 2 out of 3) who take this test DO NOT have
gestational diabetes.

ONE-STEP TESTING

If your glucose level is lower than the abnormal results described below, you
do not have gestational diabetes.  

## What Abnormal Results Mean

TWO-STEP TESTING

Abnormal blood values for a 3-hour 100-gram oral glucose tolerance test are:

    * Fasting: greater than 95 mg/dL (5.3 mmol/L)
    * 1 hour: greater than 180 mg/dL (10.0 mmol/L)
    * 2 hour: greater than 155 mg/dL (8.6 mmol/L)
    * 3 hour: greater than 140 mg/dL (7.8 mmol/L)

ONE-STEP TESTING

Abnormal blood values for a 2-hour 75-gram oral glucose tolerance test are:

    * Fasting: greater than 92 mg/dL (5.1 mmol/L)
    * 1 hour: greater than 180 mg/dL (10.0 mmol/L)
    * 2 hour: greater than 153 mg/dL (8.5 mmol/L)

If onlyÂ one of your blood glucose results in the oral glucose tolerance test
is higher than normal, your provider may simply suggest you change some of the
foods you eat. Then, your provider may test you again after you have changed
your diet.

If more thanÂ one of your blood glucose results is higher than normal, you
have gestational diabetes.

## Risks

You may have some of the symptoms listed above under the heading titled "How
the Test will Feel."

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another and from one side of the body to the
other. Taking a blood sample from some people may be more difficult than from
others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Hematoma (blood buildup under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

## Alternative Names

Oral glucose tolerance test - pregnancy; OGTT - pregnancy; Glucose challenge
test - pregnancy; Gestational diabetes - glucose screening

## References

American Diabetes Association. Standards of medical care in diabetes - 2018:
2. Classification and diagnosis of diabetes. _Diabetes Care_. 2018
Jan;41(Suppl 1):S13-S27. PMID 29222373 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29222373.

Committee on Practice Bulletins--Obstetrics. Practice Bulletin No. 190:
Gestational diabetes mellitus. _Obstet Gynecol_. 2018;131(2):e49-e64. PMID:
29370047 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/ 29370047.

Landon MB, Catalano PM, Gabbe SG. Diabetes mellitus complicating pregnancy.
In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and
Problem Pregnancies_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2017:chap
40.

Metzger BE. Diabetes mellitus and pregnancy. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de
Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 45.

## Review Date 4/19/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Blood Sugar](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodSugar_thumb.jpg)Blood Sugar
_Read more_

![Diabetes and
Pregnancy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DiabetesandPregnancy_thumb.jpg)Diabetes
and Pregnancy _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

