Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001335.htm    
                                Description: Peritonitis is an inflammation (irritation) of the peritoneum. This is the thin tissue that lines the inner wall of the abdomen and covers most of the abdominal organs.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Peritonitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001335.htm

# Peritonitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Peritonitis is an inflammation (irritation) of the peritoneum. This is the
thin tissue that lines the inner wall of the abdomen and covers most of the
abdominal organs.

## Causes

Peritonitis is caused by a collection of blood, body fluids, or pus in the
belly (abdomen).

One type is called spontaneous bacterial peritonitis (SPP). It occurs in
people with ascites. Ascites is the buildup of fluid in the space between the
lining of the abdomen and the organs. This problem is found in people with
long-term liver damage, certain cancers, and heart failure.

Peritonitis may be a result of other problems. This is known as secondary
peritonitis. Problems that may lead to this type of peritonitis include:

    * Trauma or wounds to the belly
    * Ruptured appendix
    * Ruptured diverticula
    * Infection after any surgery in the belly 

## Symptoms

The belly is very painful or tender. The pain may become worse when the belly
is touched or when you move.

Your belly may look or feel bloated. This is called abdominal distention.

Other symptoms may include:

    * Fever and chills
    * Passing little or no stools or gas
    * Excessive fatigue
    * Passing less urine
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Racing heartbeat
    * Shortness of breath 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. The abdomen is usually
tender. It may feel firm or "board-like." People with peritonitis usually curl
up or refuse to let anyone touch the area.

Blood tests, x-rays, and CT scans may be done. If there is a lot of fluid in
the belly area, the provider may use a needle to remove some and send it for
testing.

## Treatment

The cause must be identified and treated right away. Treatment typically
involves surgery and antibiotics.

## Possible Complications

Peritonitis can be life threatening and may cause complications. These depend
on the type of peritonitis.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Go to the emergency room or call the local emergency number (such as 911) if
you have symptoms of peritonitis.

## Alternative Names

Acute abdomen; Spontaneous bacterial peritonitis; SBP; Cirrhosis - spontaneous
peritonitis

## Images

    * ![Peritoneal sample](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8715t.jpg)Peritoneal sample
    * ![Abdominal organs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8896t.jpg)Abdominal organs
    * ![Gastroschisis repair - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/7105t.jpg)Gastroschisis repair - series

## References

Kuemmerle JF. Inflammatory and anatomic diseases of the intestine, peritoneum,
mesentery, and omentum. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 142.

Levison ME, Bush LM. Peritonitis and intraperitoneal abscesses. In: Bennett
JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and
Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 76.

## Review Date 1/7/2018

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Photograph of a woman clutching her stomach in
pain](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pain_thumb.jpg)Abdominal Pain _Read more_

![Peritoneal
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PeritonealDisorders_thumb.jpg)Peritoneal
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

