Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003136.htm    
                                Description: Abdominal rigidity is stiffness of the muscles in the belly area, which can be felt when touched or pressed.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Abdominal rigidity

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003136.htm

# Abdominal rigidity

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Abdominal rigidity is stiffness of the muscles in the belly area, which can be
felt when touched or pressed.

## Considerations

When there is a sore area inside the belly or abdomen, the pain will get worse
when a hand presses against your belly area.

Your fear or nervousness about being touched (palpated) may cause this
symptom, but there should be no pain.

If you have pain when you are touched and you tighten the muscles to guard
against more pain, it is more likely caused by a physical condition inside
your body. The condition may affect one or both sides of your body.

Abdominal rigidity may occur with:

    * Abdominal tenderness
    * Nausea
    * Pain
    * Swelling
    * Vomiting

## Causes

Causes can include:

    * Abscess inside the abdomen
    * Appendicitis
    * Cholecystitis caused by gallstones
    * Hole that develops through the entire wall of the stomach, small intestine, large bowel, or gallbladder (gastrointestinal perforation)
    * Injury to the abdomen
    * Peritonitis

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Get medical care right away if you have pain when the belly is gently pressed
and then released.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

You will probably be seen in an emergency room.

The health care provider will examine you. This may include a pelvic exam, and
possibly a rectal exam.

The provider will ask questions about your symptoms, such as:

    * When did they first start?
    * What other symptoms do you have at the same time? For example, do you have abdominal pain? 

You may have the following tests:

    * Barium studies of the stomach and intestines (such as an upper GI series)
    * Blood tests
    * Colonoscopy
    * Gastroscopy
    * Peritoneal lavage
    * Stool studies
    * Urine tests
    * X-ray of the abdomen
    * X-ray of the chest

You will probably not be given any pain relievers until a diagnosis is made.
Pain relievers can hide your symptoms.

## Alternative Names

Rigidity of the abdomen

## References

McQuaid K. Approach to the patient with gastrointestinal disease. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 132.

Squires R, Carter SN, Postier RG. Acute abdomen. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp
RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 45.

## Review Date 10/8/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Photograph of a woman clutching her stomach in
pain](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pain_thumb.jpg)Abdominal Pain _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

