Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003274.htm    
                                Description: An abdominal mass is swelling in one part of the belly area (abdomen).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Abdominal mass

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003274.htm

# Abdominal mass

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An abdominal mass is swelling in one part of the belly area (abdomen).

## Considerations

An abdominal mass is most often found during a routine physical exam. Most of
the time, the mass develops slowly. You may not be able to feel the mass.

Locating the pain helps your health care provider make a diagnosis. For
example, the abdomen can be divided into four areas:

    * Right-upper quadrant
    * Left-upper quadrant
    * Right-lower quadrant
    * Left-lower quadrant 

Other terms used to find the location of abdominal pain or masses include:

    * Epigastric -- center of the abdomen just below the rib cage
    * Periumbilical -- area around the belly button 

The location of the mass and its firmness, texture, and other qualities can
provide clues to its cause.

## Causes

Several conditions can cause an abdominal mass:

    * Abdominal aortic aneurysm can cause a pulsating mass around the navel.
    * Bladder distention (urinary bladder over-filled with fluid) can cause a firm mass in the center of the lower abdomen above the pelvic bones. In extreme cases, it can reach as far up as the navel.
    * Cholecystitis can cause a very tender mass that is felt below the liver in the right-upper quadrant (occasionally).
    * Colon cancer can cause a mass almost anywhere in the abdomen.
    * Crohn disease or bowel obstruction can cause many tender, sausage-shaped masses anywhere in the abdomen.
    * Diverticulitis can cause a mass that is usually located in the left-lower quadrant.
    * Gallbladder tumor can cause a tender, irregularly shaped mass in the right-upper quadrant.
    * Hydronephrosis (fluid-filled kidney) can cause a smooth, spongy-feeling mass in one or both sides or toward the back (flank area).
    * Kidney cancer can sometimes cause a mass in the abdomen.
    * Liver cancer can cause a firm, lumpy mass in the right upper quadrant.
    * Liver enlargement (hepatomegaly) can cause a firm, irregular mass below the right rib cage, or on the left side in the stomach area.
    * Neuroblastoma, a cancerous tumor often found in the lower abdomen can cause a mass (this cancer mainly occurs in children and infants).
    * Ovarian cyst can cause a smooth, rounded, rubbery mass above the pelvis in the lower abdomen.
    * Pancreatic abscess can cause a mass in the upper abdomen in the epigastric area.
    * Pancreatic pseudocyst can cause a lumpy mass in the upper abdomen in the epigastric area.
    * Renal cell carcinoma can cause a smooth, firm, but not tender mass near the kidney (usually only affects one kidney).
    * Spleen enlargement (splenomegaly) can sometimes be felt in the left-upper quadrant.
    * Stomach cancer can cause a mass in the left-upper abdomen in the stomach area (epigastric) if the cancer is large.
    * Uterine leiomyoma (fibroids) can cause a round, lumpy mass above the pelvis in the lower abdomen (sometimes can be felt if the fibroids are large).
    * Volvulus can cause a mass anywhere in the abdomen.
    * Ureteropelvic junction obstruction can cause a mass in the lower abdomen. 

## Home Care

All abdominal masses should be examined as soon as possible by the provider.

Changing your body position may help relieve pain due to an abdominal mass.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Get medical help right away if you have a pulsating lump in your abdomen along
with severe abdominal pain. This could be a sign of a ruptured aortic
aneurysm, which is an emergency condition.

Contact your provider if you notice any type of abdominal mass.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

In nonemergency situations, your provider will perform a physical exam and ask
questions about your symptoms and medical history.

In an emergency situation, you will be stabilized first. Then, your provider
will examine your abdomen and ask questions about your symptoms and medical
history, such as:

    * Where is the mass located?
    * When did you notice the mass?
    * Does it come and go?
    * Has the mass changed in size or position? Has it become more or less painful?
    * What other symptoms do you have? 

A pelvic or rectal exam may be needed in some cases. Tests that may be done to
find the cause of an abdominal mass include:

    * Abdominal CT scan
    * Abdominal ultrasound
    * Abdominal x-ray
    * Angiography
    * Barium enema
    * Blood tests such as CBC and blood chemistry 
    * Colonoscopy
    * EGD
    * Isotope study
    * Sigmoidoscopy

## Alternative Names

Mass in the abdomen

## Images

    * ![Anatomical landmarks - front view](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1070t.jpg)Anatomical landmarks - front view
    * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
    * ![Fibroid tumors](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17064t.jpg)Fibroid tumors
    * ![Aortic aneurysm](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18072t.jpg)Aortic aneurysm

## References

Ball JW, Dains JE, Flynn JA, Solomon BS, Stewart RW. Abdomen. In: Ball JW,
Dains JE, Flynn JA, Solomon BS, Stewart RW, eds. _Seidel's Guide to Physical
Examination_. 9th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2019:chap 18.

McQuaid KR. Approach to the patient with gastrointestinal disease. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 132.

Squires R, Carter SN, Postier RG. Acute abdomen. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp
RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed.
Elsevier; 2017:chap 45.

## Review Date 10/8/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Photograph of a woman clutching her stomach in
pain](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pain_thumb.jpg)Abdominal Pain _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

