Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000958.htm    
                                Description: Intussusception is the sliding of one part of the intestine into another.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Intussusception - children

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000958.htm

# Intussusception - children

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Intussusception is the sliding of one part of the intestine into another.

This article focuses on intussusception in children.

## Causes

Intussusception is caused by part of the intestine being pulled inward into
itself.

The pressure created by the walls of the intestine pressing together causes:

    * Decreased blood flow
    * Irritation
    * Swelling 

Intussusception can block the passage of food through the intestine. If the
blood supply is cut off, the segment of intestine pulled inside can die. Heavy
bleeding may also occur. If a hole develops, infection, shock, and dehydration
can take place very rapidly.

The cause of intussusception is not known. Conditions that may lead to the
problem include:

    * Viral infection
    * Enlarged lymph node in the intestine
    * Polyp or tumor 

The reason for the problem is more likely to be found in older children.

Intussusception can affect both children and adults. However, most cases occur
in children ages 6 months to 2 years. It affects boys 4 times as often as
girls.

## Symptoms

The first sign of intussusception is very often sudden, loud crying caused by
abdominal pain. The pain is colicky and not continuous (intermittent), but it
comes back often. The pain will get stronger and last longer each time it
returns.

An infant with severe abdominal pain may draw the knees to the chest while
crying.

Other symptoms include:

    * Bloody, mucus-like bowel movement, sometimes called a "currant jelly" stool
    * Fever
    * Shock (pale color, lethargy, sweating)
    * Stool mixed with blood and mucus
    * Vomiting

## Exams and Tests

Your doctor will perform a thorough exam, which may reveal a mass in the
abdomen. There may also be signs of dehydration or shock.

Tests may include:

    * Abdominal ultrasound
    * Abdominal x-ray
    * Air or contrast enema

## Treatment

The child will first be stabilized. A tube will be passed into the stomach
through the nose (nasogastric tube). An intravenous (IV) line will be placed
in the arm, and fluids will be given to prevent dehydration.

In some cases, the bowel blockage can be treated with an air or contrast
enema. This is done by a radiologist skilled with the procedure. There is a
risk of bowel tearing (perforation) with this procedure.

The child will need surgery if these treatments do not work. The bowel tissue
can very often be saved. Dead tissue will be removed.

Antibiotics may be needed to treat any infection.

Intravenous feeding and fluids will be continued until the child has a normal
bowel movement.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome is good with early treatment. There is a risk this problem will
come back.

When a hole or tear in the bowel occurs, it must be treated right away. If not
treated, intussusception is almost always fatal for infants and young
children.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Intussusception is an emergency. Call yourÂ doctor right away, then call 911
or go to the emergency room right away.

## Alternative Names

Abdominal pain in children - intussusception

## Images

    * ![Colonoscopy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1083t.jpg)Colonoscopy
    * ![Intussusception - X-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1172t.jpg)Intussusception - x-ray
    * ![Digestive system organs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8710t.jpg)Digestive system organs

## References

Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF. Ileus, adhesions,
intussusception, and closed-loop obstructions. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF,
St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 333.

Maloney PJ. Gastrointestinal disorders. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-
Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 171.

Manning AT, Little DC. Intussusception in infants and children. In: Wyllie R,
Hyams JS, Kay M, eds. _Pediatric Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 51.

## Review Date 2/19/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Photograph of a woman clutching her stomach in
pain](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pain_thumb.jpg)Abdominal Pain _Read more_

![Intestinal
Obstruction](https://medlineplus.gov/images/IntestinalObstruction_thumb.jpg)Intestinal
Obstruction _Read more_

![Salud del niÃ±o
pequeÃ±o](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ToddlerHealth_thumb.jpg)Toddler
Health _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

