Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003273.htm    
                                Description: Abdominal point tenderness is the pain you feel when pressure is placed over a certain part of the belly area (abdomen).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Point tenderness - abdomen

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003273.htm

# Point tenderness - abdomen

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Abdominal point tenderness is the pain you feel when pressure is placed over a
certain part of the belly area (abdomen).

## Considerations

The abdomen is an area of the body a health care provider can easily examine
by touch. The provider can feel growths and organs in the belly area and find
where you feel pain.

Abdominal tenderness can be mild to severe. Rebound tenderness occurs when the
tissue that lines the abdominal cavity (the peritoneum) is irritated,
inflamed, or infected. This is called peritonitis.

## Causes

Causes include:

    * Abdominal abscess
    * Appendicitis
    * Certain types of hernias
    * Meckel diverticulum
    * Ovarian torsion (twisted fallopian tube) 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Get emergency medical help right away if you have abdominal point tenderness.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will examine you and gently push on places on your belly. People
with peritonitis will often tense the abdominal muscles when the area is
touched. This is called guarding.

The provider will note any point of tenderness. The location of the tenderness
can indicate the problem that is causing it. For example, if you have
appendicitis, you will have tenderness when a certain place is touched. This
spot is called McBurney point.

The provider will also ask questions about your symptoms and medical history.
These may include:

    * When did the symptoms start?
    * Is this the first time you have had such discomfort?
    * If not, when does the discomfort tend to occur?
    * Are you having other symptoms, such as constipation, diarrhea, fainting, vomiting, or fever? 

You may need to have the following tests:

    * Abdominal x-ray
    * Abdominal CT scan (occasionally)
    * Blood work, such as a complete blood count

In some cases, you may need surgery right away. This may involve an
exploratory laparotomy or an emergency appendectomy.

## Alternative Names

Abdominal tenderness

## Images

    * ![Anatomical landmarks - front view](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1070t.jpg)Anatomical landmarks - front view
    * ![Appendix](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1128t.jpg)Appendix

## References

Ball JW, Dains JE, Flynn JA, Solomon BS, Stewart RW. Abdomen. In: Ball JW,
Dains JE, Flynn JA, Solomon BS, Stewart RW, eds. _Seidel's Guide to Physical
Examination_. 9th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2019:chap 18.

McQuaid KR. Approach to the patient with gastrointestinal disease. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 132.

Squires R, Carter SN, Postier RG. Acute abdomen. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp
RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 45.

## Review Date 10/8/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Photograph of a woman clutching her stomach in
pain](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pain_thumb.jpg)Abdominal Pain _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

