Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003113.htm    
                                Description: Flank pain is pain in one side of the body between the upper belly area (abdomen) and the back.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Flank pain

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003113.htm

# Flank pain

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Flank pain is pain in one side of the body between the upper belly area
(abdomen) and the back.

## Considerations

Flank pain can be a sign of a kidney problem. But, since many organs are in
this area, other causes are possible. If you have flank pain and fever,
chills, blood in the urine, or frequent or urgent urination, then a kidney
problem is the likely cause. It could be a sign ofÂ kidney stones.

## Causes

Flank pain may be caused by any of the following:

    * Arthritis or infection of the spine
    * Back problem, such as disk disease
    * Gallbladder disease
    * Gastrointestinal disease
    * Liver disease
    * Muscle spasm
    * Kidney stone, infection, or abscess
    * Shingles (pain with one-sided rash)
    * Spinal fracture 

## Home Care

Treatment depends on the cause.

Rest, physical therapy, and exercise may be recommended if the pain is caused
by muscle spasm. You will be taught how to do these exercises at home.

Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and physical therapy may be
prescribed for flank pain caused by spinal arthritis.

Antibiotics are used to treat most kidney infections. You will also receive
fluids and pain medicine. You may need to stay in the hospital.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have any of the following:

    * Flank pain along with a high fever, chills, nausea, or vomiting
    * Blood (red or brown color) in the urine
    * Unexplained flank pain that continues

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will examine you. You will be asked about your medical history
and symptoms, including:

    * Location of the pain
    * When the pain began, if it's always there or comes and goes, if it's getting worse
    * If your pain is related to activities or bending over
    * What the pain feels like, such as dull and aching or sharp
    * What other symptoms you have

The following tests may be done:

    * Abdominal CT scan
    * Blood tests to check kidney and liver function
    * Chest x-ray
    * Kidney or abdominal ultrasound
    * Lumbosacral spine x-ray
    * Tests to check the kidneys and bladder, such as urinalysis and urine culture, or cystourethrogram

## Alternative Names

Pain - side; Side pain

## Images

    * ![Anatomical landmarks - back view](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1069t.jpg)Anatomical landmarks - back view
    * ![Anatomical landmarks - front view](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1070t.jpg)Anatomical landmarks - front view
    * ![Anatomical landmarks - side view](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1071t.jpg)Anatomical landmarks - side view

## References

Landry DW, Bazari H. Approach to the patient with renal disease. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 114.

McQuaid KR. Approach to the patient with gastrointestinal disease. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 132.

Millham FH. Acute abdominal pain. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds.
_Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 11.

Seller RH, Symons AB. Abdominal pain in adults. In: Seller RH, Symons AB, eds.
_Differential Diagnosis of Common Complaints_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 1.

## Review Date 3/12/2019

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Photograph of a woman clutching her stomach in
pain](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pain_thumb.jpg)Abdominal Pain _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

