Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001151.htm    
                                Description: Intestinal ischemia and infarction occurs when there is a narrowing or blockage of one or more of the arteries that supply the small intestine.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Small intestinal ischemia and infarction

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001151.htm

# Small intestinal ischemia and infarction

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Intestinal ischemia and infarction occurs when there is a narrowing or
blockage of one or more of the arteries that supply the small intestine.

## Causes

There are several possible causes of intestinal ischemia and infarction.

    * Hernia \-- If the intestine moves into the wrong place or becomes tangled, it can cut off the blood flow. 
    * Adhesions \-- The intestine may become trapped in scar tissue (adhesions) from past surgery. This can lead to loss of blood flow if left untreated.
    * Embolus -- Blood clots can block one of the arteries supplying the intestine. People who have had a heart attack or who have arrhythmias, such as atrial fibrillation, are at risk for this problem.
    * The arteries that supply blood to the bowel may become narrowed or blocked from cholesterol buildup. When this happens in the arteries to the heart, it causes a heart attack. When it happens in the arteries to the intestine, it causes intestinal ischemia.
    * The veins carrying blood away from the intestine may become blocked by blood clots. This blocks blood flow in the intestine. This is more common in people with liver disease, cancer, or blood clotting disorders.
    * Low blood pressure -- Very low blood pressure in people who already have narrowing of the intestinal arteries may also cause loss of blood flow to the intestine. This often occurs in people with other serious medical problems. 

## Symptoms

The main symptom of intestinal ischemia is pain in abdomen. The pain is
severe, even though the area is not very tender when touched. Other symptoms
include:

    * Diarrhea
    * Fever
    * Vomiting
    * Blood in the stool

## Exams and Tests

Laboratory tests may show a high white blood cell (WBC) count (a marker of
infection). There may be bleeding in the GI tract.

Some tests to detect the extent of damage include:

    * Increased acid in the bloodstream
    * Angiogram
    * CT scan of the abdomen
    * Doppler ultrasound of the abdomen 

These tests do not always detect the problem. Sometimes, the only way to
detect intestinal ischemia is with a surgical procedure.

## Treatment

In most cases, the condition needs to be treated with surgery. The section of
intestine that has died is removed. The healthy remaining ends of the bowel
are reconnected.

In some cases, a colostomy or ileostomy is needed. The blockage of arteries to
the intestine is corrected, if possible.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Damage or death of the bowel tissue is a serious condition. This can result in
death if not treated right away. The outlook depends on the cause. Prompt
treatment can lead to a good outcome.

## Possible Complications

Damage or death of the bowel tissue may require a colostomy or ileostomy. This
may be short-term or permanent. Peritonitis is common in these cases. People
who have a large amount of tissue death in the intestine can have problems
absorbing nutrients. They can become dependent on getting nutrition through
their veins.

Some people may become severely ill with fever and a bloodstream infection
(sepsis).

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have any severe abdominal pain.

## Prevention

Preventive measures include:

    * Controlling risk factors, such as irregular heartbeat, high blood pressure, and high cholesterol
    * Not smoking 
    * Eating a nutritious diet
    * Quickly treating hernias

## Alternative Names

Intestinal necrosis; Ischemic bowel - small intestine; Dead bowel - small
intestine; Dead gut - small intestine; Infarcted bowel - small intestine;
Atherosclerosis - small intestine; Hardening of the arteries - small intestine

## Images

    * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
    * ![Small intestine](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19221t.jpg)Small intestine

## References

Brandt LJ, Feuerstadt P. Intestinal ischemia. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS,
Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 118.

Eslami MH. Acute mesenteric ischemia. In: Cameron JL, Cameron AM, eds.
_Current Surgical Therapy_. 12th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:1071-1079.

Hauser SC. Vascular diseases of the gastrointestinal tract. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 143.

Roline CE, Reardon RF. Disorders of the small intestine. In: Walls RM,
Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 82.

## Review Date 1/12/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Photograph of a woman clutching her stomach in
pain](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pain_thumb.jpg)Abdominal Pain _Read more_

![Exam](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Adhesions_thumb.jpg)Adhesions _Read
more_

![Colonic
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ColonicDiseases_thumb.jpg)Colonic
Diseases _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

