Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003120.htm    
                                Description: Abdominal pain is pain that you feel anywhere between your chest and groin. This is often referred to as the stomach region or belly.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Abdominal pain

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003120.htm

# Abdominal pain

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Abdominal pain is pain that you feel anywhere between your chest and groin.
This is often referred to as the stomach region or belly.

## Considerations

Almost everyone has pain in the abdomen at some point. Most of the time, it is
not serious.

![Abdominal organs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19574.jpg)

How bad your pain is does not always reflect the seriousness of the condition
causing the pain.

For example, you might have very bad abdominal pain if you have gas or stomach
cramps due to viral gastroenteritis.

However, fatal conditions, such as colon cancer or early appendicitis, may
only cause mild pain or no pain.

Other ways to describe pain in your abdomen include:

    * Generalized pain -- This means that you feel it in more than half of your belly. This type of pain is more typical for a stomach virus, indigestion, or gas. If the pain becomes more severe, it may be caused by a blockage of the intestines.
    * Localized pain -- This is pain found in only one area of your belly. It is more likely to be a sign of a problem in an organ, such as the appendix, gallbladder, or stomach.
    * Cramp-like pain -- This type of pain is not serious most of the time. It is likely to be due to gas and bloating, and is often followed by diarrhea. More worrisome signs include pain that occurs more often, lasts more than 24 hours, or occurs with a fever.
    * Colicky pain -- This type of pain comes in waves. It very often starts and ends suddenly, and is often severe. Kidney stones and gallstones are common causes of this type of belly pain. 

## Causes

Many different conditions can cause abdominal pain. The key is to know when
you need to get medical care right away. Sometimes, you may only need to call
a health care provider if your symptoms continue.

Less serious causes of abdominal pain include:

    * Constipation
    * Irritable bowel syndrome
    * Food allergies or intolerance (such as lactose intolerance)
    * Food poisoning
    * Stomach flu 

Other possible causes include:

    * Appendicitis
    * Abdominal aortic aneurysm (bulging and weakening of the major artery in the body)
    * Bowel blockage or obstruction
    * Cancer of the stomach, colon (large bowel), and other organs
    * Cholecystitis (inflammation of the gallbladder) with or without gallstones
    * Decreased blood supply to the intestines (ischemic bowel)
    * Diverticulitis (inflammation and infection of the colon)
    * Heartburn, indigestion, or gastroesophageal reflux (GERD)
    * Inflammatory bowel disease (Crohn disease or ulcerative colitis)
    * Kidney stones
    * Pancreatitis (swelling or infection of the pancreas)
    * Ulcers
![Appendicitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19580.jpg)

Sometimes, abdominal pain may occur due to a problem somewhere else in your
body, such as your chest or pelvic area. For example, you may have abdominal
pain if you have:

    * Severe menstrual cramps
    * Endometriosis
    * Muscle strain
    * Pelvic inflammatory disease (PID)
    * Tubal (ectopic) pregnancy
    * Ruptured ovarian cyst
    * Urinary tract infections

## Home Care

You can try the following home care steps to ease mild abdominal pain:

    * Sip water or other clear fluids. You may have sports drinks in small amounts. People with diabetes must check their blood sugar often and adjust their medicines as needed.
    * Avoid solid food for the first few hours.
    * If you have been vomiting, wait 6 hours, and then eat small amounts of mild foods such as rice, applesauce, or crackers. Avoid dairy products.
    * If the pain is high up in your abdomen and occurs after meals, antacids may help, especially if you feel heartburn or indigestion. Avoid citrus, high-fat foods, fried or greasy foods, tomato products, caffeine, alcohol, and carbonated beverages.
    * DO NOT take any medicine without talking to your provider. 

These additional steps may help prevent some types of abdominal pain:

    * Drink plenty of water each day.
    * Eat small meals more frequently.
    * Exercise regularly.
    * Limit foods that produce gas.
    * Make sure that your meals are well-balanced and high in fiber. Eat plenty of fruits and vegetables. 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Get medical help right away or call your local emergency number (such as 911)
if you:

    * Are currently being treated for cancer
    * Are unable to pass stool, especially if you are also vomiting
    * Are vomiting blood or have blood in your stool (especially if bright red, maroon or dark, tarry black)
    * Have chest, neck, or shoulder pain
    * Have sudden, sharp abdominal pain
    * Have pain in, or between, your shoulder blades with nausea
    * Have tenderness in your belly, or your belly is rigid and hard to the touch
    * Are pregnant or could be pregnant
    * Had a recent injury to your abdomen
    * Have difficulty breathing 

Call your provider if you have:

    * Abdominal discomfort that lasts 1 week or longer
    * Abdominal pain that does not improve in 24Â to 48 hours, or becomes more severe and frequent and occurs with nausea and vomiting
    * Bloating that persists for more than 2 days
    * Burning sensation when you urinate or frequent urination
    * Diarrhea for more than 5 days
    * Fever, over 100Â°F (37.7Â°C) for adults or 100.4Â°F (38Â°C)Â for children, with pain
    * Prolonged poor appetite
    * Prolonged vaginal bleeding
    * Unexplained weight loss 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will perform a physical exam and ask about your symptoms and
medical history. Your specific symptoms, the location of pain and when it
occurs will help your provider detect the cause.

LOCATION OF YOUR PAIN

    * Where do you feel the pain?
    * Is it all over or in one spot?
    * Does the pain move into your back, groin, or down your legs? 

TYPE AND INTENSITY OF YOUR PAIN

    * Is the pain severe, sharp, or cramping?
    * Do you have it all the time, or does it come and go?
    * Does the pain wake you up at night? 

HISTORY OF YOUR PAIN

    * Have you had similar pain in the past? How long has each episode lasted?
    * When does the pain occur? For example, after meals or during menstruation?
    * What makes the pain worse? For example, eating, stress, or lying down?
    * What makes the pain better? For example, drinking milk, having a bowel movement, or taking an antacid?
    * What medications are you taking? 

OTHER MEDICAL HISTORY

    * Have you had a recent injury?
    * Are you pregnant?
    * What other symptoms do you have? 

Tests that may be done include:

    * Barium enema
    * Blood, urine, and stool tests
    * CT scan
    * Colonoscopy or sigmoidoscopy (tube through the rectum into the colon)
    * EKG (electrocardiogram) or heart tracing
    * Ultrasound of the abdomen
    * Upper endoscopy (tube through the mouth into the esophagus, stomach and upper small intestine)
    * Upper GI (gastrointestinal) and small bowel series
    * X-rays of the abdomen

## Alternative Names

Stomach pain; Pain - abdomen; Belly ache; Abdominal cramps; Bellyache;
Stomachache

## Patient Instructions

    * Gallstones - discharge

## Images

    * ![Anatomical landmarks - front view](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1070t.jpg)Anatomical landmarks - front view
    * ![Abdominal organs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19574t.jpg)Abdominal organs
    * ![Abdominal quadrants](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19578t.jpg)Abdominal quadrants
    * ![Appendicitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19580t.jpg)Appendicitis
    * ![Kidney function](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19615t.jpg)Kidney function

## References

MacGilchrist A, Iredale J, Parks R. The gastrointestinal system. In: Douglas
G, Nicol F, Robertson C, eds. _Macleod's Clinical Examination_. 13th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2013:chap 8.

McQuaid KR. Approach to the patient with gastrointestinal disease. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 132.

Millham FH. Acute abdominal pain. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds.
_Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 11.

Smith KA. Abdominal pain. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds.
_Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 24.

Squires R, Carter SN, Postier RG. Acute abdomen. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp
RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 45.

Swartz MH. The abdomen. In: Swartz MH, ed. _Textbook of Physical Diagnosis_.
7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 14.

## Review Date 1/12/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Photograph of a woman clutching her stomach in
pain](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pain_thumb.jpg)Abdominal Pain _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

