Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001348.htm    
                                Description: Rat-bite fever is a rare bacterial disease spread by the bite of an infected rodent.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Rat-bite fever

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001348.htm

# Rat-bite fever

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Rat-bite fever is a rare bacterial disease spread by the bite of an infected
rodent.

## Causes

Rat-bite fever can be caused by either of two different bacteria,
_Streptobacillus moniliformis_ or _Spirillum minus._ Both of these are found
in the mouths of rodents.

The disease is most often seen in:

    * Asia
    * Europe
    * North America

Most people get rat-bite fever through contact with urine or fluids from the
mouth, eye, or nose of an infected animal. This most commonly occurs through a
bite or scratch. Some cases may occur simply through contact with these
fluids.

A rat is usually the source of the infection. Other animals that may cause
this infection include:

    * Gerbils
    * Squirrels
    * Weasels

## Symptoms

Symptoms depend on the bacteria that caused the infection.

Symptoms due to _Streptobacillus moniliformis_ may include:

    * Chills
    * Fever
    * Joint pain, redness, or swelling
    * Rash 

Symptoms due to _Spirillum minus_ may include:

    * Chills
    * Fever
    * Open sore at the site of the bite
    * Rash with red or purple patchesÂ and bumps
    * Swollen lymph nodes near the bite 

Symptoms from either organism usually resolve within 2 weeks. Untreated, the
symptoms, such as fever or joint pain, can keep returning for many weeks or
longer.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical examination and ask about
your symptoms. If the provider suspects rat bite fever, tests will be done to
detect the bacteria in:

    * Skin
    * Blood
    * Joint fluid
    * Lymph nodes 

Blood antibody tests and other techniques may also be used.

## Treatment

Rat-bite fever is treated with antibiotics for 7 to 14 days.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outlook is excellent with early treatment. If it is not treated, the death
rate can be as high as 25%.

## Possible Complications

Rat-bite fever may cause these complications:

    * Abscesses of the brain or soft tissue
    * Infection of the heart valves
    * Inflammation of the parotid (salivary) glands
    * Inflammation of the tendons
    * Inflammation of the heart lining 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You or your child has had recent contact with a rat or other rodent
    * The person who was bitten has symptoms of rat-bite fever 

## Prevention

Avoiding contact with rats or rat-contaminated dwellings may help prevent rat-
bite fever. Taking antibiotics by mouth promptly after a rat bite may also
help prevent this illness.

## Alternative Names

Streptobacillary fever; Streptobacillosis; Haverhill fever; Epidemic arthritic
erythema; Spirillary fever; Sodoku

## References

Shandro JR, Jauregui JM. Wilderness-acquired zoonoses. In: Auerbach PS,
Cushing TA, Harris NS, eds. _Auerbach's Wilderness Medicine_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 34.

Washburn RG. Rat-bite fever: _Streptobacillus moniliformis_ and _Spirillum
minus_. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and
Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_.
8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 233.

## Review Date 12/1/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Animal Diseases and Your
Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AnimalDiseasesandYourHealth_thumb.jpg)Animal
Diseases and Your Health _Read more_

![Bacterial
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Bacterialnfection_thumb.jpg)Bacterial
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

