Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003453.htm    
                                Description: Gram stain of tissue biopsy test involves using crystal violet stain to test a sample of tissue taken from a biopsy.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Gram stain of tissue biopsy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003453.htm

# Gram stain of tissue biopsy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Gram stain of tissue biopsy test involves using crystal violet stain to test a
sample of tissue taken from a biopsy.

The Gram stain method can be used on almost any specimen. It is an excellent
technique for making a general, basic identification of the type of bacteria
in the sample.

## How the Test is Performed

A sample, called a smear, from a tissue specimen is placed in a very thin
layer on a microscope slide. The specimen is stained with crystal violet stain
and goes through more processing before it is examined under the microscope
for bacteria.

Characteristic appearance of the bacteria, such as their color, shape,
clustering (if any), and pattern of staining help determine the type of
bacteria.

## How to Prepare for the Test

If the biopsy is included as part of a surgical procedure, you will be asked
not to eat or drink anything the night before surgery. If the biopsy is of a
superficial (on the surface of the body) tissue, you may be asked not to eat
or drink for several hours before the procedure.

## How the Test will Feel

How the test feels depends on the part of the body being biopsied. There are
several different methods for taking tissue samples.

    * A needle may be inserted through the skin to the tissue.
    * A cut (incision) through the skin into the tissue may be made, and a small piece of the tissue removed.
    * A biopsy may also be taken from inside the body using an instrument that helps the doctor see inside the body, such as an endoscope or cystoscope. 

You may feel pressure and mild pain during a biopsy. Some form of pain-
relieving medicine (anesthetic) is usually given, so you have little or no
pain.

## Why the Test is Performed

The test is performed when an infection of a body tissue is suspected.

## Normal Results

Whether there are bacteria, and what type there are, depends on the tissue
being biopsied. Some tissues in the body are sterile, such as the brain. Other
tissues, such as the gut, normally contain bacteria.

Note: Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk
to your doctor about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results usually mean there is an infection in the tissue. More tests,
such as culturing the tissue that was removed, are often needed to identify
the type of bacteria.

## Risks

The only risks are from taking a tissue biopsy, and may include bleeding or
infection.

## Alternative Names

Tissue biopsy - Gram stain

## Images

    * ![Gram stain of tissue biopsy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9353t.jpg)Gram stain of tissue biopsy

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Biopsy, site-specificÂ - specimen. In: Chernecky CC,
Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013.199-202.

Hall GS, Woods GL. Medical bacteriology. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds.
_Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23d ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 58.

## Review Date 12/1/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bacterial
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Bacterialnfection_thumb.jpg)Bacterial
Infections _Read more_

![Biopsy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Biopsy_thumb.jpg)Biopsy _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

