Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000611.htm    
                                Description: Q fever is an infectious disease that is spread by domestic and wild animals and ticks.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Q fever

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000611.htm

# Q fever

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Q fever is an infectious disease that is spread by domestic and wild animals
and ticks.

## Causes

Q fever is caused by the bacteria _Coxiella burnetii_ , which live in domestic
animals such as cattle, sheep, goats, birds, and cats. Some wild animals and
ticks also carry these bacteria.

You can get Q fever by drinking raw (unpasteurized) milk, or after breathing
in dust or droplets in the air that are contaminated with infected animal
feces, blood, or birth products.

People at risk for infection include slaughterhouse workers, veterinarians,
researchers, food processors, and sheep and cattle workers. Men are infected
more often than women. Most people who get Q fever are between 30 and 70 years
old.

In rare cases, the disease affects children, especially those who live on a
farm. In infected children younger than 3 years old, Q fever is usually
noticed while looking for the cause of pneumonia.

## Symptoms

Symptoms usually develop 2 to 3 weeks after coming in contact with the
bacteria. This time is called the incubation period. Most people have no
symptoms. Others have moderate symptoms similar to the flu. If symptoms occur,
they may last for several weeks.

Common symptoms may include:

    * Dry cough (nonproductive)
    * Fever
    * Headache
    * Joint pain (arthralgia)
    * Muscle pains

Other symptoms that may develop include:

    * Abdominal pain
    * Chest pain
    * Jaundice (yellowing of the skin and whites of the eyes)
    * Rash

## Exams and Tests

A physical examination may reveal abnormal sounds (crackles) in the lungs or
an enlarged liver and spleen. In the late stages of the disease, a heart
murmur may be heard.

Tests that may be done include:

    * A chest x-ray to detect pneumonia or other changes
    * Blood tests to check for antibodies to _Coxiella burnetti_
    * Liver function test
    * Complete blood count (CBC) with differential
    * Tissue staining of infected tissues to identify the bacteria
    * ElectrocardiogramÂ (ECG) or echocardiogram (echo) to look at the heart for changes

## Treatment

Treatment with antibiotics can shorten the length of the illness. Antibiotics
that are commonly used include tetracycline and doxycycline. Pregnant women or
children who still have any baby teeth should not take tetracycline by mouth
because it can permanently discolor growing teeth.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most people get better with treatment. However, complications can be very
serious and sometimes even life threatening. Q fever should always be treated
if it caused the symptoms.

## Possible Complications

In rare cases, Q fever causes a heart infection that can lead to severe
symptoms or even death if untreated. Other complications can include:

    * Bone infection (osteomyelitis)
    * Brain infection (encephalitis)
    * Liver infection (chronic hepatitis)
    * Lung infection (pneumonia) 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you develop symptoms of Q fever. Also call
if you have been treated for Q fever and symptoms return or new symptoms
develop.

## Prevention

Pasteurization of milk destroys the bacteria that cause early Q fever.
Domestic animals should be inspected for signs of Q fever if people exposed to
them have developed symptoms of the disease.

## Images

    * ![Temperature measurement](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9961t.jpg)Temperature measurement
    * ![Deer and dog tick](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19660t.jpg)Deer and dog tick

## References

Bolgiano EB, Sexton J. Tick-borne illnesses. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 126.

Marrie TJ, Raoult D. Coxiella burnetti (Q fever). In: Bennett JE, Dolin R,
Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 190.

## Review Date 9/22/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bacterial
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Bacterialnfection_thumb.jpg)Bacterial
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

