Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003737.htm    
                                Description: Lymph node culture is a laboratory test done on a sample from a lymph node to identify germs that cause infection.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Lymph node culture

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003737.htm

# Lymph node culture

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Lymph node culture is a laboratory test done on a sample from a lymph node to
identify germs that cause infection.

## How the Test is Performed

A sample is needed from a lymph node. The sample may be taken using a needle
to draw fluid (aspiration) from the lymph node or during a lymph node biopsy.

The sample is sent to a laboratory. There, it is placed in a special dish and
watched to see if bacteria, fungi, or viruses grow. This process is called a
culture. Sometimes, special stains are also used to identify specific cells or
microorganisms before culture results are available.

If needle aspiration does not provide a good enough sample, the entire lymph
node may be removed and sent for culture and other testing.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Your health care provider will instruct you on how to prepare for the lymph
node sampling.

## How the Test will Feel

When local anesthetic is injected, you will feel a prick and a mild stinging
sensation. The site will likely be sore for a few days after the test.

## Why the Test is Performed

Your provider may order this test if you have swollen glands and infection is
suspected.

## Normal Results

A normal result means there was no growth of microorganisms on the lab dish.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk to
your doctor about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results are a sign of a bacterial, fungal, or viral infection.

## Risks

Risks may include:

    * Bleeding
    * Infection (in rare cases, the wound may get infected and you may need to take antibiotics)
    * Nerve injury if the biopsy is done on a lymph node close to nerves (the numbness usually goes away in a few months) 

## Alternative Names

Culture - lymph node

## Images

    * ![Lymphatic system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1104t.jpg)Lymphatic system
    * ![Lymph node culture](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9603t.jpg)Lymph node culture

## References

Armitage JO, Bierman PJ. Approach to the patient with lymphadenopathy and
splenomegaly. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 168.

Pasternack MS, Swartz MN. Lymphadenitis and lymphangitis. In: Bennett JE,
Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and
Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 97.

## Review Date 12/13/2017

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bacterial
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Bacterialnfection_thumb.jpg)Bacterial
Infections _Read more_

![Infecciones por
hongos](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FungalInfections_thumb.jpg)Fungal
Infections _Read more_

![Viral
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ViralInfections_thumb.jpg)Viral
Infections _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

