Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001460.htm    
                                Description: Hot tub folliculitis is an infection of the skin around the lower part of the hair shaft (hair follicles). It occurs when you come into contact with certain bacteria that live in warm and wet areas.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hot tub folliculitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001460.htm

# Hot tub folliculitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hot tub folliculitis is an infection of the skin around the lower part of the
hair shaft (hair follicles). It occurs when you come into contact with certain
bacteria that live in warm and wet areas.

## Causes

Hot tub folliculitis is caused by _Pseudomonas aeruginosa_ , a bacteria that
survives in hot tubs, especially tubs made of wood. The bacteria can also be
found in whirlpools and swimming pools.

## Symptoms

The first symptom of hot tub folliculitis is an itchy, bumpy, and red rash.
Symptoms can appear from several hours to 5 days after contact with the
bacteria.

The rash may:

    * Turn into dark red tender nodules
    * Have bumps that fill with pus
    * Look like acne
    * Be thicker under swimsuit areas where the water was in contact with the skin for longer 

Other people whoÂ used the hot tub may have the same rash.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider canÂ often make this diagnosis based on looking at
the rash and knowing that you haveÂ been in a hot tub. Testing is usually not
needed.

## Treatment

Treatment may not be needed. The mild form of the disease often clears on its
own. Anti-itch medicines may be used to ease discomfort.

In severe cases, your provider may prescribe an antibiotic.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

This condition usually clears without scarring. The problem may come back if
you use the hot tub again before it has been cleaned.

## Possible Complications

In rare cases, a collection of pus (abscess) may form.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you develop symptoms of hot tub
folliculitis.

## Prevention

Controlling the acid levels and chlorine, bromine, or ozone content of the hot
tub may help prevent the problem.

## Images

    * ![Hair follicle anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9703t.jpg)Hair follicle anatomy

## References

D'Agata E. Pseudomonas aeruginosa and other Pseudomonas species. In: Bennett
JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and
Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 221.

James WD, Berger TG, Elston DM. Bacterial infections. In: James WD, Berger TG,
Elston DM, eds. _Andrews' Diseases of the Skin: Clinical Dermatology_. 12th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 14.

## Review Date 10/14/2018

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bacterial
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Bacterialnfection_thumb.jpg)Bacterial
Infections _Read more_

![Hair Loss](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hairproblems_thumb.jpg)Hair
Problems _Read more_

![Sarpullido](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Rashes_thumb.jpg)Rashes _Read
more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

