Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007621.htm    
                                Description: A Gram stain is a test used to identify bacteria. It is one of the most common ways to quickly diagnose bacterial infection in the body.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Gram stain

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007621.htm

# Gram stain

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A Gram stain is a test used to identify bacteria. It is one of the most common
ways to quickly diagnose bacterial infection in the body.

## How the Test is Performed

How the test is performed depends on what tissue or fluid from your body is
being tested. The test may be quite simple, or you may need to prepare ahead
of time.

    * You may need to provide a sputum, urine, or stool sample.
    * Your health care provider may use a needle to take fluid from your body to test. This could be from a joint, from the sac around your heart, or from the space around your lungs.
    * Your provider may need to take a tissue sample, such as from your cervix or skin. 

The sample is sent to a laboratory.

    * A small amount is spread in a very thin layer on a glass slide. This is called a smear.
    * A series of stains are added to the sample.
    * A lab team member examines the stained smear under the microscope, looking for bacteria.
    * The color, size, and shape of the cells help identify the specific type of bacteria. 

## How to Prepare for the Test

Your provider will tell you what to do to prepare for the test. For some types
of tests, you will not need to do anything.

## How the Test will Feel

How the test will feel depends on the method used to take a sample. You may
not feel anything, or you may feel pressure and mild pain, such as during a
biopsy. You may be given some form of pain medicine so you have little or no
pain.

## Why the Test is Performed

You may have this test to diagnose an infection caused by bacteria. It can
also identify the type of bacteria causing the infection.

This test can help find the cause of various health problems, including:

    * Intestinal infection or illness
    * Sexually transmitted diseases (STDs)
    * Unexplained swelling or joint pain
    * Signs of a heart infection or fluid buildup in the thin sac that surrounds the heart (pericardium)
    * Signs of infection of the space around the lungs (pleural space)
    * Cough that will not go away, or if you are coughing up material with a foul odor or odd color
    * Infected skin sore

## Normal Results

A normal result means that no bacteria or only "friendly" bacteria were found.
Some types of bacteria normally live in certain areas of the body, such as the
intestines. Bacteria normally don't live in other areas, such as the brain or
spinal fluid.

Talk to your provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may indicate an infection. You will need further tests, such
as a culture, to find out more about the infection.

## Risks

Your risks depend on the method used to remove tissue or fluid from your body.
You may have no risk at all. Other risks are rare, but may include:

    * Infection
    * Bleeding
    * Heart or lung puncture
    * Collapsed lung
    * Breathing problems
    * Scarring 

## Alternative Names

Urethral discharge - Gram stain; Feces - Gram stain; Stool - Gram stain; Joint
fluid - Gram stain; Pericardial fluid - Gram stain; Gram stain of urethral
discharge; Gram stain of the cervix; Pleural fluid - Gram stain; Sputum - Gram
stain; Skin lesion - Gram stain; Gram stain of skin lesion; Gram stain of
tissue biopsy

## References

Beavis KG, Charnot-Katsikas A. Specimen collection and handling for diagnosis
of infectious diseases. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical
Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 64.

Hall GS, Woods GL. Medical bacteriology. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds.
_Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 58.

## Review Date 4/15/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bacterial
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Bacterialnfection_thumb.jpg)Bacterial
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

