Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/immunoglobulins-blood-test/    
                                Description: An immunoglobulins test measures the levels of certain antibodies in your blood. Abnormal levels can indicate a serious health problem. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Immunoglobulins Blood Test

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/immunoglobulins-blood-
test/

# Immunoglobulins Blood Test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is an immunoglobulins blood test?

This test measures the amount of immunoglobulins, also known as antibodies, in
your blood. Antibodies are proteins made by the immune system to fight
disease-causing substances, like viruses and bacteria. Your body makes
different types of immunoglobulins to fight different types of these
substances.

An immunoglobulins test usually measures three specific types of
immunoglobulins. They are called igG, igM, and IgA. If your levels of igG,
igM, or IgA are too low or too high, it may be a sign of a serious health
problem.

Other names: quantitative immunoglobulins, total immunoglobulins, IgG, IgM,
IgA testing

## What is it used for?

An immunoglobulins blood test may be used to help diagnose a variety of
conditions, including:

    * Bacterial or viral infections
    * Immunodeficiency, a condition that reduces the body's ability to fight infections and other diseases
    * An autoimmune disorder, such as rheumatoid arthritis or lupus. An autoimmune disorder causes your immune system to attack healthy cells, tissues, and/or organs by mistake.
    * Certain types of cancer, such as multiple myeloma
    * Infections in newborns

## Why do I need an immunoglobulins blood test?

You may need this test if your health care provider thinks your immunoglobulin
levels might be too low or too high.

Symptoms of levels that are too low include:

    * Frequent and/or unusual bacterial or viral infections
    * Chronic diarrhea
    * Sinus infections
    * Lung infections
    * Family history of immunodeficiency

If your immunoglobulin levels are too high, it may be a sign of an autoimmune
disease, a chronic illness, an infection, or a type of cancer. Symptoms of
these conditions vary greatly. Your health care provider may use information
from your physical exam, medical history, and/or other tests to see if you are
at risk for one of these diseases.

## What happens during an immunoglobulins blood test?

A health care professional will take a blood sample from a vein in your arm,
using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a small amount of blood
will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel a little sting when
the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than five minutes.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You don't need any special preparations for an immunoglobulins blood test.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

## What do the results mean?

If your results show lower than normal levels of immunoglobulins, it may
indicate:

    * Kidney disease
    * Severe burn injury
    * Complications from diabetes
    * Malnutrition
    * Sepsis
    * Leukemia

If your results show higher than normal levels of immunoglobulins, it may
indicate:

    * An autoimmune disease
    * Hepatitis
    * Cirrhosis
    * Mononucleosis
    * A chronic infection
    * A viral infection such as HIV or cytomegalovirus
    * Multiple myeloma
    * Non-Hodgkin lymphoma

If your results are not normal, it doesn't necessarily mean you have a medical
condition needing treatment. The use of certain medicines, alcohol, and
recreational drugs can affect your results. If you have questions about your
results, talk to your health care provider.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about an immunglobulins blood test?

Your health care provider may order other tests to help make a diagnosis.
These tests might include urinalysis, other blood tests, or a procedure called
a spinal tap. During a spinal tap, a health care provider will use a special
needle to remove a sample of a clear liquid, called cerebrospinal fluid, from
your back.

## References

    1. Hinkle J, Cheever K. Brunner & Suddarth's Handbook of Laboratory and Diagnostic Tests. 2nd Ed, Kindle. Philadelphia: Wolters Kluwer Health, Lippincott Williams & Wilkins; c2014. Quantitative Immunoglobulins: IgA, IgG, and IgM; 442â3 p.
    2. Johns Hopkins Medicine [Internet]. Johns Hopkins Medicine; Health Library: Lumbar Puncture (LP) [cited 2018 Feb 17]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: http://www.hopkinsmedicine.org/healthlibrary/test_procedures/neurological/lumbar_puncture_lp_92,p07666
    3. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. Quantitative Immunoglobulins [updated 2018 Jan 15; cited 2018 Feb 17]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/quantitative-immunoglobulins
    4. Loh RK, Vale S, Maclean-Tooke A. Quantitative serum immunoglobulin tests. Aust Fam Physician [Internet]. 2013 Apr [cited 2018 Feb 17]; 42(4):195â8. Available from: https://www.racgp.org.au/afp/2013/april/quantitative-serum-immunoglobulin-tests
    5. Mayo Clinic: Mayo Medical Laboratories [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1995â2018. Test ID: IMMG: Immunoglobulins (IgG, IgA, and IgM), Serum: Clinical and Interpretative [cited 2018 Feb 17; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayomedicallaboratories.com/test-catalog/Clinical+and+Interpretive/8156
    6. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co. Inc.; c2018. Autoimmune Disorders [cited 2018 Feb 17]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: http://www.merckmanuals.com/home/immune-disorders/allergic-reactions-and-other-hypersensitivity-disorders/autoimmune-disorders
    7. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co. Inc.; c2018. Overview of Immunodeficiency Disorders [cited 2018 Feb 17]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.merckmanuals.com/home/immune-disorders/immunodeficiency-disorders/overview-of-immunodeficiency-disorders
    8. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Blood Tests [cited 2018 Feb 17]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    9. Nemours Children's Health System [Internet]. Jacksonville (FL): The Nemours Foundation; c1995â2018. Blood Test: Immunoglobulins (IgA, IgG, IgM) [cited 2018 Feb 17]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: http://kidshealth.org/en/parents/test-immunoglobulins.html
    10. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2018. Health Encyclopedia: Quantitative Immunoglobulins [cited 2018 Feb 17]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid;=quantitative_immunoglobulins
    11. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Immunoglobulins: Results [updated 2017 Oct 9; cited 2018 Feb 17]; [about 8 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/immunoglobulins/hw41342.html#hw41354
    12. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Immunoglobulins: Test Overview [updated 2017 Oct 9; cited 2018 Feb 17]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/immunoglobulins/hw41342.html
    13. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Immunoglobulins: What Affects the Test [updated 2017 Oct 9; cited 2018 Feb 17]; [about 9 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/gamma-globulin-tests/hw41342.html#hw41355
    14. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Immunoglobulins: Why It is Done [updated 2017 Oct 9; cited 2018 Jan 13]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/gamma-globulin-tests/hw41342.html#hw41349

## Related Health Topics

    * Autoimmune Diseases
    * Cirrhosis
    * Hepatitis
    * Immune System and Disorders
    * Infectious Diseases
    * Infectious Mononucleosis
    * Kidney Diseases
    * Lupus
    * Multiple Myeloma
    * Multiple Sclerosis
    * Rheumatoid Arthritis
    * Scleroderma

## Related Lab Test Information

    * ANA (Antinuclear Antibody) Test
    * Cerebrospinal Fluid (CSF) Analysis
    * Complete Blood Count (CBC)
    * CSF Immunoglobulin G (IgG) Index
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results
    * Protein in Urine

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 25 February 2020 Page last reviewed: 27 June 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

