Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003760.htm    
                                Description: A Gram stain of a skin lesion is a laboratory test that uses special stains to detect and identify bacteria in a sample from a skin sore. The Gram stain method is one of the most commonly used techniques    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Gram stain of skin lesion

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003760.htm

# Gram stain of skin lesion

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A Gram stain of a skin lesion is a laboratory test that uses special stains to
detect and identify bacteria in a sample from a skin sore. The Gram stain
method is one of the most commonly used techniques to quickly diagnose
bacterial infections.

## How the Test is Performed

Your health care provider will remove a sample of tissue from the skin sore.
This procedure is called a skin lesion biopsy. Before the biopsy, your
provider will numb the area of skin so you don't feel anything.

The sample is sent to a laboratory. There, it is applied in a very thin layer
to a glass slide. A series of different colored stains is applied to the
sample. The stained slide is examined under a microscope to check for
bacteria. The color, size, shape, and organization of the cells help identify
the germ causing the infection.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No preparation is needed for the laboratory test. Tell your provider if you
have a history of bleeding problems because you may bleed slightly during the
biopsy.

## How the Test Will Feel

There will be a sting when the anesthetic is given. You should only feel
pressure or discomfort similar to a pinprick during the biopsy.

## Why the Test is Performed

Your provider may order this test if you have signs of an infected skin sore.
The test is done to determine which bacteria caused the infection.

## Normal Results

The test is normal if no bacteria are found.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your doctor
about the meaning of your specific test results. Other tests may be done to
help diagnose the problem.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An abnormal result means bacteria have been found in the skin lesion. Further
tests are needed to confirm the results. This allows your provider to
prescribe the appropriate antibiotic or other treatment.

## Risks

Risks of a skin biopsy may include:

    * Infection
    * Scar

You will bleed slightly during the procedure.

## Considerations

A skin or mucosal culture may be done along with this test. Other studies are
often done on a skin sample to determine if cancer is present.

Viral skin lesions, such as herpes simplex, are examined by other tests or a
viral culture.

## Alternative Names

Skin lesion Gram stain

## Images

    * ![Viral lesion culture](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10027t.jpg)Viral lesion culture

## References

Habif TP. Bacterial infections. In: Habif TP, ed. _Clinical Dermatology: A
Color Guide to Diagnosis and Therapy_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 9.

Hall GS, Woods GL. Medical bacteriology. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds.
_Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 58.

## Review Date 10/8/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bacterial
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Bacterialnfection_thumb.jpg)Bacterial
Infections _Read more_

![Skin Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinInfection_thumb.jpg)Skin
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

