Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001342.htm    
                                Description: Noma is a type of gangrene that destroys mucous membranes of the mouth and other tissues. It occurs in malnourished children in areas where sanitation and cleanliness are lacking.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Noma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001342.htm

# Noma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Noma is a type of gangrene that destroys mucous membranes of the mouth and
other tissues. It occurs in malnourished children in areas where sanitation
and cleanliness are lacking.

## Causes

The exact cause is unknown, but noma may be due to a certain kind of bacteria.

This disorder most often occurs in young, severely malnourished children
between the ages of 2Â to 5. Often they have had an illness such as measles,
scarlet fever, tuberculosis, or cancer. They may also have a weakened immune
system.

Risk factors include:

    * A type of malnutrition called Kwashiorkor, and other forms of severe protein malnutrition
    * Poor sanitation and dirty living conditions
    * Disorders such as measles or leukemia
    * Living in a developing country

## Symptoms

Noma causes sudden tissue destruction that rapidly gets worse. First, the gums
and lining of the cheeks become inflamed and develop sores (ulcers). The
ulcers develop a foul-smelling drainage, causing bad breath and skin odor.

The infection spreads to the skin, and the tissues in the lips and cheeks die.
This can eventually destroy the soft tissue and bone. The destruction of the
bones around the mouth causes deformity of the face and loss of teeth.

Noma can also affect the genitals, spreading to the genital skin (this is
sometimes called noma pudendi).

## Exams and Tests

A physical exam shows inflamed areas of the mucous membranes, mouth ulcers,
and skin ulcers. These ulcers have a foul-smelling drainage. There may be
other signs of malnutrition.

## Treatment

Antibiotics and proper nutrition helps stop the disease from getting worse.
Plastic surgery may be necessary to remove destroyed tissues and reconstruct
facial bones. This will improve facial appearance and the function of the
mouth and jaw.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

In some cases, this condition can be deadly if it is not treated. Other times,
the condition may heal over time, even without treatment. However, it can
cause severe scarring and deformity.

## Possible Complications

These complications can occur:

    * Deformity of the face
    * Discomfort
    * Difficulty speaking and chewing
    * Isolation 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Medical care is needed if mouth sores and inflammation occur and persist or
get worse.

## Prevention

Improving nutrition, cleanliness, and sanitation may help.

## Alternative Names

Cancrum oris; Gangrenous stomatitis

## Images

    * ![Mouth sores](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9672t.jpg)Mouth sores

## References

Chjong CM, Acuin JM, Labra PJP, Chan AL. Ear, nose, and throat disorders. In:
Ryan ET, Hill DR, Solomon T, Aaronson NE, Endy TP, eds. _Hunter's Tropical and
Emerging Infectious Diseases_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 12.

Kim W. Disorders of the mucous membranes. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum
NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM. eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 684.

Srour ML, Wong V, Wyllie S. Noma, actinomycosis and nocardia. In: Farrar J,
Hotez PJ, Junghanss T, Kang G, Lalloo D, White NJ, eds. _Manson's Tropical
Diseases_. 23rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 29.

## Review Date 4/4/2019

Updated by: Liora C. Adler, MD, Pediatric Emergency Medicine, Joe DiMaggio
Childrenâs Hospital, Hollywood, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bacterial
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Bacterialnfection_thumb.jpg)Bacterial
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

