Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001376.htm    
                                Description: Leptospirosis is an infection. It occurs when you come in contact with leptospira bacteria.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Leptospirosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001376.htm

# Leptospirosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Leptospirosis is an infection. It occurs when you come in contact with
leptospira bacteria.

## Causes

These bacteria can be found in fresh water that has been soiled by animal
urine. You may get infected if you come in contact with an infected animal.
The infection occurs in warmer climates. Leptospirosis is not spread from
person to person, except in very rare cases.

Risk factors include:

    * Occupational exposure -- farmers, ranchers, slaughterhouse workers, trappers, veterinarians, loggers, sewer workers, rice field workers, and military personnel
    * Recreational activities -- fresh water swimming, canoeing, kayaking, and trail biking in warm areas
    * Household exposure -- pet dogs, domesticated livestock, rainwater catchment systems, and infected rodents 

Weil disease, a severe form of leptospirosis, is rare in the continental
United States. Hawaii has the highest number of cases in the United States.

## Symptoms

Symptoms can take 2Â to 26 days (average 10 days) to develop, and may include:

    * Dry cough
    * Fever
    * Headache
    * Muscle pain
    * Nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea
    * Shaking chills

Less common symptoms include:

    * Abdominal pain
    * Abnormal lung sounds
    * Bone pain
    * Conjunctivitis
    * Enlarged lymph glands
    * Enlarged spleen or liver
    * Joint aches
    * Muscle rigidity
    * Muscle tenderness
    * Skin rash
    * Sore throat

## Exams and Tests

The blood is tested for antibodies to the bacteria.

Other tests that may be done:

    * Complete blood count (CBC) 
    * Creatine kinase
    * Liver enzymes
    * Urinalysis
    * Blood cultures

## Treatment

Medicines to treat leptospirosis include:

    * Ampicillin
    * Azithromycin
    * Ceftriaxone
    * Â CefotaximeÂ 
    * Doxycycline
    * Penicillin

Complicated or serious cases may need supportive care. You may need treatment
in a hospital intensive care unit (ICU).

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outlook is generally good. However, a complicated case can be fatal if it
is not treated promptly.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Jarisch-Herxheimer reaction when penicillin is given
    * Meningitis
    * Severe bleeding

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your health care provider if you have any symptoms of, or risk factors
for, leptospirosis.

## Prevention

Avoid areas of stagnant water or floodwater, especially in tropical climates.
If you are exposed to a high risk area take precaution to avoid infection.
Wear protective clothing, shoes, or boots when near water or soil contaminated
with animal urine. You can take doxycycline to decrease the risk.

## Alternative Names

Weil disease; Icterohemorrhagic fever; Swineherd's disease; Rice-field fever;
Cane-cutter fever; Swamp fever; Mud fever; Hemorrhagic jaundice; Stuttgart
disease; Canicola fever

## Images

    * ![Antibodies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9069t.jpg)Antibodies

## References

Galloway RL, Stoddard RA, Schafer IJ. Leptospirosis. _CDC Yellow Book 2018:
Health Information for the International Traveler. Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention_. wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/yellowbook/2018/infectious-diseases-
related-to-travel/leptospirosis. Updated May 31, 2017. Accessed July 24, 2018.

Haake DA, Levett PN. Leptospira species (leptospirosis). In: Bennett JE, Dolin
R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 241.

Muehlenbachs A, Zaki SR. Leptospirosis. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 323.

## Review Date 7/12/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bacterial
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Bacterialnfection_thumb.jpg)Bacterial
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

