Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001341.htm    
                                Description: Yaws is a long-term (chronic) bacterial infection that mainly affects the skin, bones, and joints.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Yaws

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001341.htm

# Yaws

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Yaws is a long-term (chronic) bacterial infection that mainly affects the
skin, bones, and joints.

## Causes

Yaws is an infection caused by a form of the _Treponema pallidum_ bacteria. It
is closely related to the bacterium that causes syphilis, but this form of the
bacterium is not sexually transmitted. Yaws mainly affects children in rural,
warm, tropical areas, such as, Africa, Western Pacific islands, and Southeast
Asia.

Yaws is transmitted by direct contact with the skin sores of infected people.

## Symptoms

About 2 to 4 weeks after infection, the person develops a sore called a
"mother yaw" where bacteria entered the skin. The sore may be tan or reddish
and looks like a raspberry. It is most often painless, but does cause itching.

The sores may last for months. More sores may appear shortly before or after
the mother yaw heals. Scratching the sore can spread the bacteria from the
mother yaw to uninfected skin. Eventually, the skin sores heal.

Other symptoms include:

    * Bone pain 
    * Scarring of the skin 
    * Swelling of the bones and fingers 

In the advanced stage, sores on the skin and bones can lead to severe
disfigurement and disability. This occurs in up to 1 in 5 people who do not
get antibiotic treatment.

## Exams and Tests

A sample from a skin sore is examined under a special type of microscope
(darkfield examination).

There is no blood test for yaws. However, the blood test for syphilis is often
positive in people with yaws because the bacteria that cause these two
conditions are closely related.

## Treatment

Treatment involves a single dose of penicillin, or 3 weekly doses for later
stage disease. It is rare for the disease to return.

People who live in the same house with someone who is infected should be
examined for yaws and treated if they are infected.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

If treated in its early stages, yaws can be cured. Skin lesions may take
several months to heal.

By its late stage, yaws may have already caused damage to the skin and bones.
It may not be fully reversible, even with treatment.

## Possible Complications

Yaws may damage the skin and bones. It can affect a person's appearance and
ability to move. It can also cause deformities of the legs, nose, palate, and
upper jaw.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your health care provider if:

    * You or your child has sores on the skin or bone that don't go away. 
    * You have stayed in tropical areas where yaws is known to occur.

## Alternative Names

Frambesia tropica

## References

Hook EW. Nonsyphilitic treponematoses. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.Â
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 320.

Obaro SK, Davies HD. Nonvenereal treponemal infections. In: Kliegman RM,
Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 219.

## Review Date 12/13/2017

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bacterial
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Bacterialnfection_thumb.jpg)Bacterial
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

