Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000632.htm    
                                Description: Erysipeloid is a rare and acute infection of the skin caused by bacteria.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Erysipeloid

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000632.htm

# Erysipeloid

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Erysipeloid is a rare and acute infection of the skin caused by bacteria.

## Causes

The bacteria that cause erysipeloid are called _Erysipelothrix rhusiopathiae_.
This type of bacteria may be found in fish, birds, mammals, and shellfish.
Erysipeloid usually affects people who work with these animals (such as
farmers, butchers, cooks, grocers, fishermen or veterinarians). Infection
results when the bacteria enter the skin through small breaks.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may develop in 2 to 7 days after bacteria enter the skin. Usually,
the fingers and hands are affected. But any exposed area of the body can get
infected if there is a break in the skin. Symptoms may include:

    * Bright red skin in the infected area
    * Swelling of the area
    * Throbbing pain with itching or burning sensation
    * Fluid-filled blisters
    * Low fever if the infection spreadsÂ 
    * Swollen lymph nodes (sometimes)

The infection may spread to other fingers. It usually doesn't spread past the
wrist.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will examine you. The provider can often make the
diagnosis by looking at the infected skin and by asking how your symptoms
started.

Tests that may be done to confirm the diagnosis include:

    * Skin biopsy and culture to check for the bacteria
    * Blood tests to check for bacteria if the infection has spread

## Treatment

Antibiotics, especially penicillin, are very effective to treat this
condition.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Erysipeloid may get better on its own. It rarely spreads. If it does spread,
the lining of the heart can become infected. This condition is called
endocarditis.Â

## Prevention

Using gloves while handling or preparing fish or meat can prevent the
infection.

## Alternative Names

Erysipelothricosis - erysipeloid; Skin infection - erysipeloid; Cellulitis -
erysipeloid; Erysipeloid of Rosenbach; Diamond skin disease

## References

Habif TP. Bacterial infections. In: Habif TP, ed. _Clinical Dermatology_. 6th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 9.

Lawrence HS, Nopper AJ. Superficial bacterial skin infections and cellulitis.
In: Long SS, Prober CG, Fischer M, eds. _Principles and Practice of Pediatric
Infectious Diseases._ 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 68.

Sommer LL, Reboli AC, Heymann WR. Bacterial diseases. In: Bolognia JL,
Schaffer JV, Cerroni L, eds. _Dermatology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 74.

## Review Date 10/14/2018

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bacterial
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Bacterialnfection_thumb.jpg)Bacterial
Infections _Read more_

![Sarpullido](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Rashes_thumb.jpg)Rashes _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

