Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000687.htm    
                                Description: Bacterial vaginosis (BV) is a type of vaginal infection. The vagina normally contains both healthy bacteria and unhealthy bacteria. BV occurs when more unhealthy bacteria grow than healthy bacteria.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bacterial vaginosis - aftercare

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000687.htm

# Bacterial vaginosis - aftercare

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Bacterial vaginosis (BV) is a type of vaginal infection. The vagina normally
contains both healthy bacteria and unhealthy bacteria. BV occurs when more
unhealthy bacteria grow than healthy bacteria.

No one knows exactly what causes this to occur. BV is a common problem that
can affect women and girls of all ages.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of BV include:

    * White or gray vaginal discharge that smells fishy or unpleasant
    * Burning when you urinate
    * Itching inside and outside the vagina 

You also may not have any symptoms.

## Diagnosis

Your health care provider may do a pelvic exam to diagnose BV. DO NOT use
tampons or have sex 24 hours before you see your provider.

    * You will be asked to lie on your back with your feet in stirrups.
    * The provider will insert an instrument into your vagina called a speculum. The speculum is opened slightly to hold the vagina open while your doctor examines the inside of your vagina and takes a sample of discharge with a sterile cotton swab.
    * The discharge is examined under a microscope to check for signs of infection. 

## Treatment From Your Health Care Provider

If you have BV, your provider may prescribe:

    * Antibiotic pills that you swallow
    * Antibiotic creams that you insert into your vagina 

Be sure you use the medicine exactly as prescribed and follow the instructions
on the label. Drinking alcohol with some medicines may upset your stomach,
give you strong stomach cramps, or make you sick. DO NOT skip a day or stop
taking any medicine early, because the infection may come back.

You cannot spread BV to a male partner. But if you have a female partner, it
is possible it can spread to her. She may need to be treated for BV, as well.

## Self-care and Symptom Relief

To help ease vaginal irritation:

    * Stay out of hot tubs or whirlpool baths.
    * Wash your vagina and anus with a gentle, non-deodorant soap.
    * Rinse completely and gently dry your genitals well.
    * Use unscented tampons or pads.
    * Wear loose-fitting clothing and cotton underwear. Avoid wearing pantyhose.
    * Wipe from front to back after you use the bathroom. 

## Preventing Bacterial Vaginosis

You can help prevent bacterial vaginosis by:

    * Not having sex.
    * Limiting your number of sex partners.
    * Always using a condom when you have sex.
    * Not douching. Douching removes the healthy bacteria in your vagina that protect against infection.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

    * Your symptoms are not improving.
    * You have pelvic pain or a fever. 

## Alternative Names

Nonspecific vaginitis - aftercare; BV

## References

Gardella C, Eckert LO, Lentz GM. Genital tract infections: vulva, vagina,
cervix, toxic shock syndrome, endometritis, and salpingitis. In: Lobo RA,
Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;2017:chap 23.

McCormack WM, Augenbraun MH. Vulvovaginitis and cervicitis. In: Bennett JE,
Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and
Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 110.

## Review Date 7/11/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Bacterial Infections
    * Vaginitis

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

