Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003722.htm    
                                Description: The pleural fluid Gram stain is a test to diagnose bacterial infections in the lungs.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pleural fluid Gram stain

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003722.htm

# Pleural fluid Gram stain

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The pleural fluid Gram stain is a test to diagnose bacterial infections in the
lungs.

## How the Test is Performed

A sample of the fluid can be removed for testing. This process is called
thoracentesis. One test that can be done on the pleural fluid involves placing
the fluid onto a microscope slide and mixing it with a violet stain (called a
Gram stain). A laboratory specialist uses a microscope to look for bacteria on
the slide.

If bacteria are present, the color, number, and structure of the cells are
used to identify the type of bacteria. This test will be done if there is
concern that a person has an infection involving the lung or the space outside
the lung but inside the chest (pleural space).

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is needed before the test. A chest x-ray will probably
be done before and after the test.

DO NOT cough, breathe deeply, or move during the test to avoid injury to the
lung.

## How the Test will Feel

You will feel a stinging sensation when the local anesthetic is injected. You
may feel pain or pressure when the needle is inserted into the pleural space.

Tell your health care provider if you feel short of breath or have chest pain.

## Why the Test is Performed

Normally the lungs fill a person's chest with air. If fluid builds up in the
space outside the lungs but inside the chest, it can cause many problems.
Removing the fluid can relieve a person's breathing problems and help explain
how the fluid built up there.

The test is performed when the provider suspects an infection of the pleural
space, or when a chest x-ray reveals an abnormal collection of pleural fluid.
The Gram stain can help identify the bacteria that might be causing the
infection.

## Normal Results

Normally, no bacteriaÂ are seen in the pleural fluid.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your doctor
about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

You may have a bacterial infection in the lining of the lungs (pleura).

## Alternative Names

Gram stain of pleural fluid

## Images

    * ![Pleural smear](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9752t.jpg)Pleural smear

## References

Broaddus VC, Light RW. Pleural effusion. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD,
et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 79.

Hall GS, Woods GL. Medical bacteriology. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds.
_Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 58.

## Review Date 11/3/2018

Updated by: Denis Hadjiliadis, MD, MHS, Paul F. Harron, Jr. Associate
Professor of Medicine, Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care, Perelman School
of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bacterial
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Bacterialnfection_thumb.jpg)Bacterial
Infections _Read more_

![Pleural
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PleuralDisorders_thumb.jpg)Pleural
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

