Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/white-blood-cell-wbc-in-stool/    
                                Description: A white blood cell in stool test screens for white blood cells (leukocytes) in stool. If white blood cells are found, it can be a sign of a bacterial infection or inflammatory bowel disease. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

White Blood Cell (WBC) in Stool

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/white-blood-cell-wbc-in-
stool/

# White Blood Cell (WBC) in Stool

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a white blood cell (WBC) in stool test?

This test looks for white blood cells, also known as leukocytes, in your
stool. White blood cells are part of the immune system. They help your body
fight off infections and other diseases. If you have leukocytes in your stool,
it can be a sign of a bacterial infection that affects the digestive system.
These include:

    *  **Clostridium difficile** (C. diff), an infection that most often happens after someone takes antibiotics. Some people with C. diff could develop life-threatening inflammation of the large intestine. It mostly affects older adults.
    *  **Shigellosis** , an infection of the lining of the intestine. It is spread by direct contact with the bacteria in the stool. This can happen if an infected person doesn't wash their hands after using the bathroom. The bacteria can then be passed in food or water that this person handles. It mostly affects children under the age of 5.
    *  **Salmonella**, a bacteria mostly found in undercooked meat, poultry, dairy, and seafood, and inside eggs. You can get the disease if you eat contaminated food.
    *  **Campylobacter**, a bacteria found in raw or undercooked chicken. It can also be found in unpasteurized milk and contaminated water. You can get the disease by eating or drinking contaminated food.

Leukocytes in stool can also be a sign of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD).
IBD is a type of chronic disorder that causes inflammation in the digestive
system. Common types of IBD include ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease.

Both IBD and bacterial infections of the digestive system can cause severe
diarrhea, abdominal pain, and dehydration, a condition in which your body
doesn't have enough water or other fluids to function normally. In some cases,
these symptoms can be life-threatening.

Other names: leukocytes in stool, stool WBC, fecal leukocyte test, FLT

## What is it used for?

A white blood cell in stool test is most often used to find out the cause of
severe diarrhea that's lasted for more than four days.

## Why do I need a white blood cell in stool test?

Your health care provider may order a white blood cell in stool test if you or
your child has any of the following symptoms:

    * Watery diarrhea three or more times a day, lasting for more than four days
    * Abdominal pain
    * Blood and/or mucus in the stool
    * Fever
    * Fatigue
    * Weight loss

## What happens during a white blood cell in stool test?

You will need to provide a sample of your stool. Your provider or your child's
provider will give you specific instructions on how to collect and send in
your sample. Your instructions may include the following:

    * Put on a pair of rubber or latex gloves.
    * Collect and store the stool in a special container given to you by your health care provider or a lab. You may get a device or applicator to help you collect the sample.
    * Make sure no urine, toilet water, or toilet paper mixes in with the sample.
    * Seal and label the container.
    * Remove the gloves, and wash your hands.
    * Return the container to your health care provider or the lab by mail or in person.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

Certain medicines and foods may affect the results. Ask your provider or your
child's provider if there are any specific things you need to avoid before the
test.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is no known risk to having a white blood cell in stool test.

## What do the results mean?

A negative result means no white blood cells (leukocytes) were found in the
sample. If you or your child's results were negative, the symptoms are
probably not caused by an infection.

A positive result means white blood cells (leukocytes) were found in your
stool sample. If you or your child's results show leukocytes in stool, it
means there is some kind of inflammation in the digestive tract. The more
leukocytes that are found, the higher the chance that you or your child has a
bacterial infection.

If your provider thinks you have an infection, he or she may order a stool
culture. A stool culture can help find out which specific bacteria is causing
your illness. If you are diagnosed with a bacterial infection, your provider
will prescribe antibiotics to treat your condition.

If your provider suspects C. diff, you may first be told to stop taking the
antibiotics you are currently using. Your provider may then prescribe a
different type of antibiotics, which target C diff bacteria. Your provider may
also recommend a type of supplement called probiotics to help your condition.
Probiotics are considered "good bacteria." They are helpful to your digestive
system.

If your provider thinks you have inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), he or she
may order further tests to confirm a diagnosis. If you are diagnosed with IBD,
your provider may recommend dietary and lifestyle changes and/or medicines to
help relieve your symptoms.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about a white blood cell in stool
test?

If your symptoms or your child's symptoms are not too severe, your provider
may treat the symptoms without making a more definite diagnosis. Treatment
usually includes drinking plenty of water and restricting the diet to bland
foods for several days.

## References

    1. Allina Health [Internet]. Minneapolis: Allina Health; c2018. Fecal culture [cited 2018 Dec 27]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://wellness.allinahealth.org/library/content/1/3758
    2. Allina Health [Internet]. Minneapolis: Allina Health; c2018. Shigellosis [cited 2018 Dec 27]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://wellness.allinahealth.org/library/content/1/295
    3. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Clostridium difficile Infection Information for Patients [updated 2015 Feb 24; cited 2018 Dec 27]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/hai/organisms/cdiff/cdiff-patient.html
    4. CHOC Children's [Internet]. Orange (CA): CHOC Children's; c2018. Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD) Program [cited 2018 Dec 27]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.choc.org/programs-services/gastroenterology/inflammatory-bowel-disease-ibd-program
    5. CHOC Children's [Internet]. Orange (CA): CHOC Children's; c2018. Stool Tests [cited 2018 Dec 27]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.choc.org/programs-services/gastroenterology/digestive-disorder-diagnostics/stool-tests
    6. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. Clostridium difficile and C. difficile Toxin Testing [updated 2018 Dec 21; cited 2018 Dec 27]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/clostridium-difficile-and-c-difficile-toxin-testing
    7. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. Diarrhea [updated 2018 Apr 20; cited 2018 Dec 27]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/conditions/diarrhea
    8. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. Inflammatory Bowel Disease [updated 2017 Nov 28; cited 2018 Dec 27]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/conditions/inflammatory-bowel-disease
    9. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2018. C. difficile infection: Symptoms and causes; 2016 Jun 18 [cited 2018 Dec 27]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/c-difficile/symptoms-causes/syc-20351691
    10. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2018. Dehydration: Symptoms and causes; 2018 Feb 15 [cited 2018 Dec 27]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/dehydration/symptoms-causes/syc-20354086
    11. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2018. Food poisoning: Symptoms and causes; 2017 Jul 15 [cited 2018 Dec 27]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/food-poisoning/symptoms-causes/syc-20356230
    12. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2018. Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD): Symptoms and causes; 2017 Nov 18 [cited 2018 Dec 27]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/inflammatory-bowel-disease/symptoms-causes/syc-20353315
    13. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2018. Salmonella infection: Symptoms and causes; 2018 Sep 7 [cited 2018 Dec 27]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/salmonella/symptoms-causes/syc-20355329
    14. Mayo Clinic: Mayo Medical Laboratories [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1995â2018. Test ID: LEU: Fecal Leukocytes: Clinical and Interpretative [cited 2018 Dec 27]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayocliniclabs.com/test-catalog/Clinical+and+Interpretive/8046
    15. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co. Inc.; c2018. Diarrhea in Adults [cited 2018 Dec 27]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.merckmanuals.com/home/digestive-disorders/symptoms-of-digestive-disorders/diarrhea-in-adults
    16. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms: leukocyte [cited 2018 Dec 27]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/publications/dictionaries/cancer-terms/def/leukocyte
    17. National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Probiotics [updated 2017 Sep 24; cited 2018 Dec 27]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://nccih.nih.gov/health/probiotics
    18. National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Diagnosis of Diarrhea; 2016 Nov [cited 2018 Dec 27]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/digestive-diseases/diarrhea/diagnosis
    19. National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Foodborne Illnesses; 2014 Jun [cited 2018 Dec 27]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/digestive-diseases/foodborne-illnesses
    20. National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Treatment for Diarrhea; 2016 Nov [cited 2018 Dec 27]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/digestive-diseases/diarrhea/treatment
    21. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2018. Health Encyclopedia: White Blood Cell (Stool) [cited 2018 Dec 27]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid=stool_wbc
    22. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Digestive Health Services: Multidisciplinary Inflammatory Bowel Disease Clinic [updated 2018 Dec 5; cited 2018 Dec 27]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/digestive/inflammatory-bowel-disease/10761

## Related Health Topics

    * Bacterial Infections
    * Bowel Movement
    * Campylobacter Infections
    * Clostridium Difficile Infections
    * Crohn's Disease
    * Diarrhea
    * Digestive Diseases
    * Foodborne Illness
    * Salmonella Infections
    * Ulcerative Colitis

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Bacteria Culture Test
    * Fecal Occult Blood Test (FOBT)
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 26 February 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

