Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003383.htm    
                                Description: The lepromin skin test is used to determine what type of leprosy a person has.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Lepromin skin test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003383.htm

# Lepromin skin test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The lepromin skin test is used to determine what type of leprosy a person has.

## How the Test is Performed

A sample of inactivated (unable to cause infection) leprosy-causing bacteria
is injected just under the skin, often on the forearm, so that a small lump
pushes the skin up. The lump indicates that the antigen has been injected at
the correct depth.

The injection site is labeled and examined 3 days, and again 28 days later to
see if there is a reaction.

## How to Prepare for the Test

People with dermatitis or other skin irritations should have the test
performed on an unaffected part of the body.

If your child is to have this test performed, it may be helpful to explain how
the test will feel, and even demonstrate on a doll. Explain the reason for the
test. Knowing the "how and why" may reduce the anxiety your child feels.

## How the Test will Feel

When the antigen is injected, there may be a slight stinging or burning. There
may also be mild itching at the site of injection afterward.

## Why the Test is Performed

Leprosy is a long-term (chronic) and potentially disfiguring infection if left
untreated. It is caused by _Mycobacterium leprae_ bacteria.

This test is a research tool that helps classify the different types of
leprosy. It is not recommended as the main method to diagnose leprosy.

## Normal Results

People who don't have leprosy will have little or no skin reaction to the
antigen.Â People with a particular type of leprosy, called lepromatous
leprosy, will also have no skin reaction to the antigen.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A positive skin reaction may be seen in people with specific forms of leprosy,
such as tuberculoid and borderline tuberculoid leprosy. People with
lepromatous leprosy will not have a positive skin reaction.

## Risks

There is a very small risk for an allergic reaction, which may include itching
and rarely, hives.

## Alternative Names

Leprosy skin test; Hansen disease - skin test

## Images

    * ![Antigen injection](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8788t.jpg)Antigen injection

## References

Dupnik K. Leprosy (Mycobacterium leprae). In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ,
eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 250.

James WD, Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach MA, Neuhaus IM. Hansen disease. In:
James WD, Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach MA, Neuhaus IM, eds. _Andrews'
Diseases of the Skin_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 17.

## Review Date 8/25/2019

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bacterial
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Bacterialnfection_thumb.jpg)Bacterial
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

