Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000074.htm    
                                Description: Pulmonary actinomycosis is a rare lung infection caused by bacteria.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pulmonary actinomycosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000074.htm

# Pulmonary actinomycosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pulmonary actinomycosis is a rare lung infection caused by bacteria.

## Causes

Pulmonary actinomycosis is caused by certain bacteria normally found in the
mouth and gastrointestinal tract. The bacteria often do not cause harm. But
poor dental hygiene and tooth abscess can increase your risk for lung
infections caused by these bacteria.

People with the following health problems also have a higher chance of
developing the infection:

    * Alcohol use
    * Scars on the lungs (bronchiectasis)
    * COPD

The disease is rare in the United States. It may occur at any age, but is most
common in people 30 to 60 years old. Men get this infection more often than
women.

## Symptoms

The infection often comes on slowly. It may be weeks or months before
diagnosis is confirmed.

Symptoms may include any of the following:

    * Chest pain when taking a deep breath
    * Cough with phlegm (sputum)
    * Fever
    * Lethargy
    * Night sweats
    * Shortness of breath
    * Unintentional weight loss

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam, and ask about your
medical history and symptoms. Tests that may be done include:

    * Bronchoscopy with culture
    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * Chest x-ray
    * Chest CT scan
    * Lung biopsy
    * Modified AFB smear of sputum
    * Sputum culture
    * Tissue and sputum Gram stain
    * Thoracentesis with culture
    * Tissue culture

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to cure the infection. It may take a long time to get
better. To be cured, you may need to receive the antibiotic penicillin through
a vein (intravenously) for 4 to 6 weeks. Then you need to takeÂ penicillin by
mouth for a long period. Some people need up to 18 months of antibiotic
treatment.

If you cannot take penicillin, your provider will prescribe other antibiotics.

Surgery may be needed to drain fluid from the lungs and control the infection.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most people get better after treatment with antibiotics.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Brain abscess
    * Destruction of parts of the lungs
    * COPD
    * Meningitis
    * Osteomyelitis (bone infection)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You have symptoms of pulmonary actinomycosis
    * Your symptoms get worse or do not improve with treatment
    * You develop new symptoms
    * You have a fever of 101Â°F (38.3Â°C) or higher.

## Prevention

Good dental hygiene may help reduce your risk for actinomycosis.

## Alternative Names

Actinomycosis - pulmonary; Actinomycosis - thoracic

## Images

    * ![Respiratory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9248t.jpg)Respiratory system
    * ![Gram stain of tissue biopsy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9353t.jpg)Gram stain of tissue biopsy

## References

Brook I. Actinomycosis. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 329.

Russo TA. Agents of actinomycosis. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds.
_Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 256.

Torres A, Menendez R, Wunderink RG. Bacterial pneumonia and lung abscess. In:
Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of
Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap
33.

## Review Date 2/24/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bacterial
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Bacterialnfection_thumb.jpg)Bacterial
Infections _Read more_

![Lung Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LungDiseases_thumb.jpg)Lung
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

