Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000295.htm    
                                Description: Shigellosis is a bacterial infection of the lining of the intestines. It is caused by a group of bacteria called shigella.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Shigellosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000295.htm

# Shigellosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Shigellosis is a bacterial infection of the lining of the intestines. It is
caused by a group of bacteria called shigella.

## Causes

There are several types of _shigella_ bacteria, including:

    *  _Shigella sonnei_ , also called "group D" shigella, is responsible for most cases of shigellosis in the United States.
    *  _Shigella flexneri_ , or "group B" shigella, causes almost all other cases.
    *  _Shigella dysenteriae,_ or "group A" shigella is rare in the United States. However, it can lead to deadly outbreaks in developing countries. 

People infected with the bacteria release it into their stool. They can spread
the bacteria to water or food, or directly to another person. Getting just a
little bit of the shigella bacteria into your mouth is enough to cause
infection.

Outbreaks of shigellosis are linked with poor sanitation, contaminated food
and water, and crowded living conditions.

Shigellosis is common among travelers in developing countries and workers or
residents in refugee camps.

In the United States, the condition is most commonly seen in daycare centers
and places where groups of people live, such as nursing homes.

## Symptoms

Symptoms often develop about 1 to 7 days (average 3 days) after coming into
contact with the bacteria.

Symptoms include:

    * Acute (sudden) abdominal pain or cramping
    * Acute fever
    * Blood, mucus, or pus in the stool
    * Crampy rectal pain
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Watery diarrhea

## Exams and Tests

If you have symptoms of shigellosis, your health care provider will check for:

    * Dehydration (not enough fluids in your body) with a fast heart rate and low blood pressure
    * Abdominal tenderness
    * Elevated level of white blood cells in the blood
    * Stool culture to check for white blood cells

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to replace fluids and electrolytes (salt and
minerals) that are lost in diarrhea.

Medicines that stop diarrhea are generally not given because they can cause
the infection to take longer to go away.

Self-care measures to avoid dehydration include drinking electrolyte solutions
to replace the fluids lost by diarrhea. Several types of electrolyte solutions
are available over-the-counter (without a prescription).

Antibiotics can help shorten the length of the illness. These medicines also
help prevent the illness from spreading to others in group living or daycare
settings. They may also be prescribed for people with severe symptoms.

If you have diarrhea and cannot drink fluids by mouth because of severe
nausea, you may need medical care and intravenous (IV) fluids. This is more
common in small children who have shigellosis.

People who take diuretics ("water pills") may need to stop taking these
medicines if they have acute shigella enteritis. Never stop taking any
medicine without first talking to your provider.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The infection can be mild and goes away on its own. Most people, except
malnourished children and those with weakened immune systems, typically
recover fully.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Dehydration, severe
    * Hemolytic-uremic syndrome (HUS), a form of kidney failure with anemia and clotting problems
    * Reactive arthritis

About 1 in 10 children (under age 15) with severe shigella enteritis develop
nervous system problems. These may include febrile seizures (also called a
"fever fit") when body temperature rises quickly and the child has seizures. A
brain disease (encephalopathy) with headache, lethargy, confusion, and stiff
neck can also develop.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if diarrhea does not improve, if there is blood in the
stool, or if there are signs of dehydration.

Go to the emergency room if these symptoms occur in a person with shigellosis:

    * Confusion
    * Headache with stiff neck
    * Lethargy
    * Seizures

TheseÂ symptoms are most common in children.

## Prevention

Prevention includes properly handling, storing, and preparing food, and good
personal hygiene. Handwashing is the most effective way to prevent
shigellosis. Avoid food and water that may be contaminated.

## Alternative Names

Shigella gastroenteritis; Shigella enteritis; Enteritis - shigella;
Gastroenteritis - shigella; Traveler's diarrhea - shigellosis

## Images

    * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
    * ![Digestive system organs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8710t.jpg)Digestive system organs
    * ![Bacteria](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9095t.jpg)Bacteria

## References

Bhutta ZA. Acute gastroenteritis in children. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St.
Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 340.

Haines CF, Sears CL. Infectious enteritis and proctocolitis. In: Feldman M,
Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and
Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 110.

Keusch GT. Shigellosis. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 309.

Kotloff KL, Riddle MS, Platts-Mills JA, Pavlinac P, Zaidi AKM. Shigellosis.
_Lancet_. 2018;391(10122):801-812. PMID: 29254859
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29254859.

## Review Date 2/24/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bacterial
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Bacterialnfection_thumb.jpg)Bacterial
Infections _Read more_

![Footborne
Illness](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FoodborneIllness_thumb.jpg)Foodborne
Illness _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

