Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001357.htm    
                                Description: A swimming pool granuloma is a long-term (chronic) skin infection. It is caused by the bacteria Mycobacterium marinum (M marinum).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Swimming pool granuloma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001357.htm

# Swimming pool granuloma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A swimming pool granuloma is a long-term (chronic) skin infection. It is
caused by the bacteria _Mycobacterium marinum (M marinum)_.

## Causes

_M marinum_ bacteria usually live in brackish water, unchlorinated swimming
pools, and aquarium tanks. The bacteria can enter the body through a break in
the skin, such as a cut, when you come into contact with water that contains
this bacteria.

Signs of a skin infection appear about 2 to several weeks later.

Risks include exposure to swimming pools, aquariums, or fish or amphibians
that are infected with the bacteria.

## Symptoms

The main symptom is a reddish bump (papule) that slowly grows into a purplish
and painful nodule.

The elbows, fingers, and back of the hands are the most commonly affected body
parts. The knees and legs are less commonly affected.

The nodules may break down and leave an open sore. Sometimes, they spread up
the limb.

Since the bacteria cannot survive at the temperature of the internal organs,
they usually stay in the skin, causing the nodules.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical examination and ask about
your symptoms. You may also be asked if you recently swam in a pool or handled
fish or amphibians.

Tests to diagnose swimming pool granuloma include:

    * Skin test to check for tuberculosis infection, which may look similar
    * Skin biopsy and culture
    * X-ray or other imaging tests for infection that has spread to the joint or bone 

## Treatment

Antibiotics are used to treat this infection. They are chosen based on the
results of the culture and skin biopsy.

You may need several months of treatment with more than one antibiotic.
Surgery may also be needed to remove dead tissue. This helps the wound heal.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Swimming pool granulomas can usually be cured with antibiotics. But, you may
have scarring.

## Possible Complications

Tendon, joint, or bone infections sometimes occur. The disease may be harder
to treat in people whose immune system is not working well.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you develop reddish bumps on your skin that do not clear
with home treatment.

## Prevention

Wash hands and arms thoroughly after cleaning aquariums. Or, wear rubber
gloves when cleaning.

## Alternative Names

Aquarium granuloma; Fish tank granuloma; Mycobacterium marinum infection

## References

Brown-Elliott BA, Wallace RJ. Infections caused by _Mycobacterium bovis_ and
nontuberculous mycobacteria other than _Mycobacterium avium_ complex. In:
Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's
Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 254.

Patterson JW. Bacterial and rickettsial infections. In: Patterson JW, ed.
_Weedon's Skin Pathology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill
Livingstone; 2016:chap 23.

## Review Date 3/11/2019

Updated by: Alireza Minagar, MD, MBA, Professor, Department of Neurology, LSU
Health Sciences Center, Shreveport, LA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Bacterial
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Bacterialnfection_thumb.jpg)Bacterial
Infections _Read more_

![Skin Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinInfection_thumb.jpg)Skin
Infections _Read more_

![Seguridad en el agua
\(RecreaciÃ³n\)](https://medlineplus.gov/images/WaterSafety_thumb.jpg)Water
Safety (Recreational) _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

