Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001443.htm    
                                Description: Necrotizing soft tissue infection is a rare but very severe type of bacterial infection. It can destroy the muscles, skin, and underlying tissue. The word &quot;necrotizing&quot; refers to something that causes    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Necrotizing soft tissue infection

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001443.htm

# Necrotizing soft tissue infection

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Necrotizing soft tissue infection is a rare but very severe type of bacterial
infection. It can destroy the muscles, skin, and underlying tissue. The word
"necrotizing" refers to something that causes body tissue to die.

## Causes

Many different types of bacteria can cause this infection. A very severe and
usually deadly form of necrotizing soft tissue infection is due to the
bacteria _Streptococcus pyogenes_ , which is sometimes called "flesh-eating
bacteria" or strep.

Necrotizing soft tissue infection develops when the bacteria enters the body,
usually through a minor cut or scrape. The bacteria begins to grow and release
harmful substances (toxins) that kill tissue and affect blood flow to the
area. With flesh-eating strep, the bacteria also make chemicals that block the
body's ability to respond to the organism. As the tissue dies, the bacteria
enters the blood and rapidly spreads throughout the body.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

    * Small, red, painful lump or bump on the skin that spreads
    * A very painful bruise-like area then develops and grows rapidly, sometimes in less than an hour
    * The center becomes dark and dusky and then turns black and the tissue dies
    * The skin may break open and ooze fluid 

Other symptoms may include:

    * Feeling ill
    * Fever
    * Sweating
    * Chills
    * Nausea
    * Dizziness
    * Weakness
    * Shock 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider may be able to diagnose this condition by looking at
your skin. Or, the condition may be diagnosed in an operating room by a
surgeon.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Ultrasound
    * X-ray or CT scan
    * Blood tests
    * Blood culture to check for bacteria
    * An incision of the skin to see if pus is present  

    * Skin tissue biopsy and culture

## Treatment

Treatment is needed right away to prevent death. You'll likely need to stay in
the hospital. Treatment includes:

    * Powerful antibiotics are given through a vein (IV)
    * Surgery to drain the sore and remove dead tissue
    * Special medicines called donor immunoglobulins (antibodies) to help fight the infection in some cases

Other treatments may include:

    * Skin grafts after the infection goes away to help your skin heal and look better
    * Amputation if the disease spreads through an arm or leg
    * Hundred percent oxygen at high pressure (hyperbaric oxygen therapy) for certain types of bacterial infections

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well you do depends on:

    * Your overall health (especially if you have diabetes)
    * How fast you were diagnosed and how quickly you received treatment
    * The type of bacteria causing the infection
    * How quickly the infection spreads
    * How well treatment works

This disease commonly causes scarring and skin deformity.

Death can occur rapidly without proper treatment.

## Possible Complications

Complications that may result from this condition include:

    * Infection spreads throughout body, causing a blood infection (sepsis), which can be deadly
    * Scarring and disfigurement
    * Loss of your ability to use an arm or leg
    * Death

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

This disorder is severe and may be life threatening. Contact your provider
right away if symptoms of infection occur around a skin injury, including:

    * Drainage of pus or blood
    * Fever
    * Pain
    * Redness
    * Swelling

## Prevention

Always clean the skin thoroughly after a cut, scrape, or other skin injury.

## Alternative Names

Necrotizing fasciitis; Fasciitis - necrotizing; Flesh-eating bacteria; Soft
tissue gangrene; Gangrene - soft tissue

## References

Fitzpatrick JE, High WA, Kyle WL. Necrotic and ulcerative skin disorders. In:
Fitzpatrick JE, High WA, Kyle WL, eds. _Urgent Care Dermatology: Symptom-Based
Diagnosis_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 14.

Pasternack MS, Swartz MN. Cellulitis, necrotizing fasciitis, and subcutaneous
tissue infections. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas,
and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases,Â Updated
Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 95.

Stevens DL, Bisno AL, Chambers HF, et al. Practice guidelines for the
diagnosis and management of skin and soft tissue infections: 2014 update by
the Infectious Diseases Society of America. _Clin Infect Dis_.
2014;59(2):e10-e52. PMID: 24973422 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24973422.

## Review Date 11/3/2017

Updated by: David L. Swanson, MD, Vice Chair of Medical Dermatology, Associate
Professor of Dermatology, Mayo Medical School, Scottsdale, AZ. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bacterial
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Bacterialnfection_thumb.jpg)Bacterial
Infections _Read more_

![Gangrene](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Gangrene_thumb.jpg)Gangrene _Read
more_

![Skin Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinInfection_thumb.jpg)Skin
Infections _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

