Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007296.htm    
                                Description: Lymphangitis is an infection of the lymph vessels (channels). It is a complication of some bacterial infections.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Lymphangitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007296.htm

# Lymphangitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Lymphangitis is an infection of the lymph vessels (channels). It is a
complication of some bacterial infections.

## Causes

The lymph system is a network of lymph nodes, lymph ducts, lymph vessels, and
organs that produce and move a fluid called lymph from tissues to the
bloodstream.

Lymphangitis most often results from an acute streptococcal infection of the
skin. Less often, it is caused by a staphylococcal infection. The infection
causes the lymph vessels to become inflamed.

Lymphangitis may be a sign that a skin infection is getting worse. The
bacteria can spread into the blood and cause life-threatening problems.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

    * Fever and chills
    * Enlarged and tender lymph nodes (glands) -- usually in the elbow, armpit, or groin
    * General ill feeling (malaise)
    * Headache
    * Loss of appetite
    * Muscle aches
    * Red streaks from the infected area to the armpit or groin (may be faint or obvious)
    * Throbbing pain along the affected area

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam, which includes feeling
your lymph nodes and examining your skin. The provider may look for signs of
injury around swollen lymph nodes.

A biopsy and culture of the affected area may reveal the cause of the
inflammation. A blood culture may be done to see if the infection has spread
to the blood.

## Treatment

Lymphangitis may spread within hours. Treatment should begin right away.

Treatment may include:

    * Antibiotics by mouth or IV (through a vein) to treat any infection
    * Pain medicine to control pain
    * Anti-inflammatory medicines to reduce inflammation and swelling
    * Warm, moist compresses to reduce inflammation and pain

Surgery may be needed to drain an abscess.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Prompt treatment with antibiotics usually leads to a complete recovery. It may
take weeks, or even months, for swelling to disappear. The amount of time it
takes to recover depends on the cause.

## Possible Complications

Health problems that may occur include:

    * Abscess (collection of pus)
    * Cellulitis (a skin infection)
    * Sepsis (a general or bloodstream infection)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider or go to the emergency room if you have symptoms of
lymphangitis.

## Alternative Names

Inflamed lymph vessels; Inflammation - lymph vessels; Infected lymph vessels;
Infection - lymph vessels

## Images

    * ![Staphylococcal lymphangitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1852t.jpg)Staphylococcal lymphangitis

## References

Pasternack MS, Swartz MN. Lymphadenitis and lymphangitis. In: Bennett JE,
Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and
Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 97.

## Review Date 5/10/2019

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bacterial
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Bacterialnfection_thumb.jpg)Bacterial
Infections _Read more_

![Lymphatic
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LymphaticDiseases_thumb.jpg)Lymphatic
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

