Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000088.htm    
                                Description: Psittacosis is an infection caused by Chlamydophila psittaci, a type of bacteria found in the droppings of birds. Birds spread the infection to humans.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Psittacosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000088.htm

# Psittacosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Psittacosis is an infection caused by _Chlamydophila psittaci,_ a type of
bacteria found in the droppings of birds. Birds spread the infection to
humans.

## Causes

Psittacosis infection develops when you breathe in (inhale) the bacteria.
People between 30 to 60 years are commonly affected.

People at high risk for this disease include:

    * Bird owners
    * Pet shop employees
    * People who work in poultry processing plants
    * Veterinarians

Typical birds involved are parrots, parakeets, and budgerigars, although other
birds have also caused the disease.

Psittacosis is a rare disease. Very few cases are reported each year in the
United States.

## Symptoms

The incubation period of psittacosis is of 5 to 15 days. The incubation period
is the time it takes for symptoms to appear after being exposed to the
bacteria.

Symptoms may include:

    * Blood-tinged sputum
    * Dry cough
    * Fatigue
    * Fever and chills
    * Headache
    * Joint aches
    * Muscle aches (most often in the head and neck)
    * Shortness of breath
    * Diarrhea
    * Swelling in the back of the throat (pharyngitis)
    * Swelling of the liver
    * Confusion 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will hear abnormal lung sounds such as crackles and
decreased breath sounds when listening to the chest with a stethoscope.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Antibody titer (rising titer over time is a sign of infection)
    * Blood culture
    * Sputum culture
    * X-ray of the chest
    * Complete blood count
    * CT scan of the chest

## Treatment

The infection is treated with antibiotics. Doxycycline is used first. Other
antibiotics that may be given include:

    * Macrolides
    * Fluoroquinolones
    * Other tetracycline antibiotics

Note: Tetracycline and doxycycline by mouth are usually not given to children
until after all their permanent teeth have started to grow in, because they
can permanently discolor teeth that are still forming. These medicines are
also not given to pregnant women. Other antibiotics are used in these
situations.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

A full recovery is expected if you do not have any other conditions that
affect your health.

## Possible Complications

Complications of psittacosis may include:

    * Brain involvement
    * Decreased lung function as a result of the pneumonia
    * Heart valve infection
    * Inflammation of the liver (hepatitis)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Antibiotics are needed to treat this infection. If you develop symptoms of
psittacosis, call your provider.

## Prevention

Avoid exposure to birds that may carry these bacteria, such as parrots.
Medical problems that lead to a weak immune system increase your risk for this
disease and should be treated appropriately.

## Alternative Names

Ornithosis; Parrot pneumonia

## Images

    * ![Lungs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1103t.jpg)Lungs
    * ![Respiratory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9248t.jpg)Respiratory system

## References

Geisler WM. Diseases caused by Chlamydiae. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 318.

Schlossberg D. Psittacosis (due to _Chlamydia psittaci_ ). In: Bennett JE,
Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and
Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 183.

## Review Date 7/28/2018

Updated by: Denis Hadjiliadis, MD, MHS, Paul F. Harron, Jr. Associate
Professor of Medicine, Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care, Perelman School
of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Animal Diseases and Your
Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AnimalDiseasesandYourHealth_thumb.jpg)Animal
Diseases and Your Health _Read more_

![Bacterial
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Bacterialnfection_thumb.jpg)Bacterial
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

