Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000679.htm    
                                Description: Nocardial infection (nocardiosis) is a disorder that affects the lungs, brain, or skin. In otherwise healthy people, it may occur as a local infection. But in people with weakened immune systems, it may    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Nocardial infection

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000679.htm

# Nocardial infection

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Nocardial infection (nocardiosis) is a disorder that affects the lungs, brain,
or skin. In otherwise healthy people, it may occur as a local infection. But
in people with weakened immune systems, it may spread throughout the body.

## Causes

Nocardial infection is caused by a bacterium. It usually starts in the lungs.
It may spread to other organs, most often the brain and the skin. It may also
involve the kidneys, joints, heart, eyes, and bones.

Nocardial bacteria are found in soil around the world. You can get the disease
by breathing in dust that has the bacteria. You can also get the disease if
soil containing nocardial bacteria gets into an open wound.

You are more likely to get this infection if you have long-term (chronic) lung
disease or a weakened immune system, which can occur with transplants, cancer,
HIV/AIDS, and long-term use of steroids.

## Symptoms

Symptoms vary and depend on the organs involved.

If in the lungs, symptoms may include:

    * Chest pain when breathing (may occur suddenly or slowly)
    * Coughing up blood
    * Fevers
    * Night sweats
    * Weight loss 

If in the brain, symptoms may include:

    * Fever
    * Headache
    * Seizures
    * Coma 

If the skin is affected, symptoms may include:

    * Skin breakdown and a draining tract (fistula)
    * Ulcers or nodules with infection sometimes spreading along lymph nodes 

Some people with nocardial infection have no symptoms.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will examine you and ask about your symptoms.

Nocardial infection is diagnosed using tests that identify the bacteria.Â For
example, for an infection in the lung, a sputum culture may be done.

Depending on the part of the body infected, testing may involve taking a
tissue sample by:

    * Brain biopsy
    * Lung biopsy
    * Skin biopsy

## Treatment

You will need to take antibiotics for 6 months to a year or longer. You may
need more than one antibiotic.

Surgery may be done to drain pus that has collected in the skin or tissues
(abscess).

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well you do depends on your overall health and the parts of the body
involved. Infection that affects many areas of the body is hard to treat, and
some people may not be able to recover.

## Possible Complications

Complications of nocardial infections depend on how much of the body is
involved.

    * Certain lung infections may lead to scarring and long-term (chronic) shortness of breath.
    * Skin infections may lead to scarring or disfigurement.
    * Brain abscesses may lead to loss of neurological function. 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have any symptoms of this infection. They are
nonspecific symptoms that can have many other causes.

## Alternative Names

Nocardiosis

## Images

    * ![Antibodies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9069t.jpg)Antibodies

## References

Sorrell TC, Mitchell DH, Iredell JR, Chen SC-A. _Nocardia_ species. In:
Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennettâs
Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 255.

Southwick FS. Nocardiosis. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 330.

## Review Date 12/1/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bacterial
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Bacterialnfection_thumb.jpg)Bacterial
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

