Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003757.htm    
                                Description: A stool Gram stain is a laboratory test that uses different stains to detect and identify bacteria in a stool sample.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Stool Gram stain

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003757.htm

# Stool Gram stain

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A stool Gram stain is a laboratory test that uses different stains to detect
and identify bacteria in a stool sample.

The Gram stain method is sometimes used to quickly diagnose bacterial
infections.

## How the Test is Performed

You will need to collect a stool sample.

There are many ways to collect the sample.

    * You can catch the stool on plastic wrap that is loosely placed over the toilet bowl and held in place by the toilet seat. Then you put the sample in a clean container.
    * A test kit is available that supplies a special toilet tissue that you use to collect the sample. After collecting the sample, you put it in a container.
    * Do notÂ take stool samples from the water in the toilet bowl. Doing this can cause an inaccurate test result. 

Do notÂ mix urine, water, or toilet tissue with the sample.

For children wearing diapers:

    * Line the diaper with plastic wrap.
    * Position the plastic wrap so that it will prevent urine and stool from mixing. This will provide a better sample. 

Your health care provider will give you instructions on when and how to return
the sample.

The sample is sent to a laboratory. A small amount is spread in a very thin
layer on a glass slide. This is called a smear. A series of special stains are
added to the sample. The lab team member looks at the stained smear under the
microscope to check for bacteria. The color, size, and shape of the cells help
identify the specific bacteria.

## How the Test will Feel

A lab smear is painless and does not directly involve the person who is being
tested.

There is no discomfort when a stool sample is collected at home because it
only involves normal bowel functions.

## Why the Test is Performed

Your provider may order this test to help diagnose an intestinal infection or
illness, sometimes involving diarrhea.

## Normal Results

A normal result means only normal or "friendly" bacteria were seen on the
stained slide. Everyone has friendly bacteria in their intestines.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk to
your provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An abnormal result means that an intestinal infection may be present. Stool
cultures and other tests can also help diagnose the cause of the infection.

## Risks

There are no risks.

## Alternative Names

Gram stain of stool; Feces Gram stain

## References

Allos BM. Campylobacter infections. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 303.

Beavis KG, Charnot-Katsikas A. Specimen collection and handling for diagnosis
of infectious diseases. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical
Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 64.

Eliopoulos GM, Moellering RC. Principles of anti-infective therapy. In:
Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's
Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 17.

Haines CF, Sears CL. Infectious enteritis and proctocolitis. In: Feldman M,
Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and
Liver Disease: Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 110.

## Review Date 10/12/2018

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bacterial
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Bacterialnfection_thumb.jpg)Bacterial
Infections _Read more_

![Footborne
Illness](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FoodborneIllness_thumb.jpg)Foodborne
Illness _Read more_

![Gastroenteritis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Gastroenteritis_thumb.jpg)Gastroenteritis
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

