Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001351.htm    
                                Description: Rickettsialpox is a disease spread by a mite. It causes a chickenpox-like rash on the body.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Rickettsialpox

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001351.htm

# Rickettsialpox

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Rickettsialpox is a disease spread by a mite. It causes a chickenpox-like rash
on the body.

## Causes

Rickettsialpox is caused by the bacteria, _Rickettsia akari_. It is commonly
found in the United States in New York City and other city areas. It also has
been seen in Europe, South Africa, Korea, and Russia.

The bacteria are spread by the bite of a mite that lives on mice.

## Symptoms

The disease begins at the site of the mite bite as a painless, firm, red lump
(nodule). The nodule develops into a fluid-filled blister that bursts and
crusts over. This lump may be up to 1 inch (2.5 centimeters) wide. These lumps
usually appear on the face, trunk, arms, and legs. They do not appear on the
palms of hands and soles of feet. Symptoms usually develop 6 to 15 days after
coming in contact with the bacteria.

Other symptoms may include:

    * Discomfort in bright light (photophobia)
    * Fever and chills
    * Headache
    * Muscle pain
    * Rash that looks like chickenpox
    * Sweating 
    * Runny nose
    * Sore throat
    * Cough
    * Enlarged lymph nodes
    * Loss of appetite
    * Nausea or vomiting

The rash is not painful and usually clears within a week.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will do an examination to look for a rash similar to
the one in chickenpox.

If rickettsialpox is suspected, these tests will likely be done:Â

    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * Tests of blood serum (serologic studies)
    * Swabbing and culture of the rash

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to cure the infection by taking antibiotics.
Doxycycline is the drug of choice. Treatment with antibiotics shortens the
duration of symptoms usually to 24 to 48 hours.

Without treatment, the disease resolves itself within 7 to 10 days.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

A full recovery is expected when antibiotics are taken as instructed.

## Possible Complications

There are usually no complications if theÂ infection is treated.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you or your child has symptoms of rickettsialpox.

## Prevention

Controlling mice helps prevent the spread of rickettsialpox.

## Alternative Names

Rickettsia akari

## References

Elston DM. Bacterial and rickettsial diseases. In: Callen JP, Jorizzo JL, Zone
JJ, Piette WW, Rosenbach MA, Vleugels RA, eds. _Dermatological Signs of
Systemic Disease_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 32.

Raoult D. _Rickettsia akari_ (Rickettsialpox). In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser
MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 189.

## Review Date 8/5/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bacterial
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Bacterialnfection_thumb.jpg)Bacterial
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

