Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000597.htm    
                                Description: Brucellosis is a bacterial infection that occurs from contact with animals carrying brucella bacteria.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Brucellosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000597.htm

# Brucellosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Brucellosis is a bacterial infection that occurs from contact with animals
carrying brucella bacteria.

## Causes

Brucella can infect cattle, goats, camels, dogs, and pigs. The bacteria can
spread to humans if you come in contact with infected meat or the placenta of
infected animals, or if you eat or drink unpasteurized milk or cheese.

Brucellosis is rare in the United States. About 100 to 200 cases occur each
year.Â Most cases are caused by the _Brucellosis melitensis_ bacteria.

People working in jobs where they often come in contact with animals or meat
-- such as slaughterhouse workers, farmers, and veterinarians -- are at higher
risk.

## Symptoms

Acute brucellosis may begin with mild flu-like symptoms, or symptoms such as:

    * Abdominal pain
    * Back pain
    * Fever and chills
    * Excessive sweating
    * Fatigue
    * Headache
    * Joint and muscle pain
    * Loss of appetite
    * Swollen glands
    * Weakness
    * Weight loss

High fever spikes often occur every afternoon. The name undulant fever is
often used to describe this disease because the fever rises and falls in
waves.

The illness may be chronic and last for years.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will examine you and ask about your symptoms. You'll
also be asked if you've been in contact with animals or possibly eaten dairy
products that were not pasteurized.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Blood test for brucellosis
    * Blood culture
    * Bone marrow culture
    * Urine culture
    * CSF (spinal fluid) culture
    * Biopsy and culture of specimen from affected organ

## Treatment

Antibiotics, such as doxycycline, streptomycin, gentamicin, and rifampin, are
used to treat the infection and prevent it from coming back. Often, you need
to take the drugs for 6 weeks. If there are complications from brucellosis,
you will likely need to take the drugs for a longer period.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Symptoms may come and go for years. Also, the illness can come back after a
long period of not having symptoms.

## Possible Complications

Health problems that may result from brucellosis include:

    * Bone and joint sores (lesions)
    * Encephalitis (swelling, or inflammation, of the brain)
    * Infective endocarditis (inflammation of the inside lining of the heart chambers and heart valves)
    * Meningitis (infection of the membranes covering the brain and spinal cord)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your provider if:

    * You develop symptoms of brucellosis
    * Your symptoms get worse or do not improve with treatment
    * You develop new symptoms

## Prevention

Drinking and eating only pasteurized dairy products, such as milk and cheeses,
is the most important way to reduce the risk for brucellosis. People who
handle meat should wear protective eyewear and clothing, and protect skin
breaks from infection.

Detecting infected animals controls the infection at its source. Vaccination
is available for cattle, but not humans.

## Alternative Names

Cyprus fever; Undulant fever; Gibraltar fever; Malta fever; Mediterranean
fever

## Images

    * ![Brucellosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17102t.jpg)Brucellosis
    * ![Antibodies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9069t.jpg)Antibodies

## References

Gotuzzo E, Ryan ET. Brucellosis. In: Ryan ET, Hill DR, Solomon T, Aronson NE,
Endy TP, eds. _Hunter's Tropical Medicine and Emerging Infectious Diseases_.
10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 75.

Gul HC, Erdem H. Brucellosis ( _Brucella_ species). In: Bennett JE, Dolin R,
Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 226.

## Review Date 8/25/2019

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Animal Diseases and Your
Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AnimalDiseasesandYourHealth_thumb.jpg)Animal
Diseases and Your Health _Read more_

![Bacterial
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Bacterialnfection_thumb.jpg)Bacterial
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

