Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000599.htm    
                                Description: Actinomycosis is a long-term (chronic) bacterial infection that commonly affects the face and neck.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Actinomycosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000599.htm

# Actinomycosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Actinomycosis is a long-term (chronic) bacterial infection that commonly
affects the face and neck.

## Causes

Actinomycosis is usually caused by bacteria called _Actinomyces israelii_.
This is a common organism found in the nose and throat. It normally does not
cause disease.

Because of the bacteria's normal location in the nose and throat,
actinomycosis most commonly affects the face and neck. The infection can
sometimes occur in the chest (pulmonary actinomycosis), abdomen, pelvis, or
other areas of the body. The infection is not contagious. This means it does
not spread to other people.

Symptoms occur when the bacteria enter the tissues of the face after trauma,
surgery, or infection. Common triggers include dental abscess or oral surgery.
The infection can also affect certain women who have had an intrauterine
device (IUD) to prevent pregnancy.

Once in the tissue, the bacteria cause an abscess, producing a hard, red to
reddish-purple lump, often on the jaw, from which comes the condition's common
name, "lumpy jaw."

Eventually, the abscess breaks through the skin surface to produce a draining
sinus tract.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

    * Draining sores in the skin, especially on the chest wall from lung infection with actinomyces 
    * Fever
    * Mild or no pain
    * Swelling or a hard, red to reddish-purple lump on the face or upper neck
    * Weight loss

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about your
symptoms.

Tests that may be done to check for presence of the bacteria include:

    * Culture of the tissue or fluid 
    * Examination of drained fluid under a microscope 
    * CT scan of affected areas

## Treatment

Treatment of actinomycosis usually requires antibiotics for several months to
a year. Surgical drainage or removal of the affected area (lesion) may be
needed. If the condition is related to an IUD, the device must be removed.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Full recovery can be expected with treatment.

## Possible Complications

In rare cases, meningitis can develop from actinomycosis.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you develop symptoms of this infection.Â Starting
treatmentÂ right awayÂ helps quicken the recovery.

## Prevention

Good oral hygiene and regular dentist visits may help prevent some forms of
actinomycosis.

## Alternative Names

Lumpy jaw

## Images

    * ![Actinomycosis \(lumpy jaw\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17245t.jpg)Actinomycosis (lumpy jaw)

## References

Brook I. Actinomycosis. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 329.

Russo TA. Agents of actinomycosis. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds.
_Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 256.

Soper DE. Infections of the female pelvis. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ,
eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 111.

## Review Date 12/13/2017

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Antibiotics](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AntibioticsAndAbscess_thumb.jpg)Abscess
_Read more_

![Bacterial
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Bacterialnfection_thumb.jpg)Bacterial
Infections _Read more_

![Skin Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinInfection_thumb.jpg)Skin
Infections _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

