Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000189.htm    
                                Description: You had surgery to repair a damaged ligament in your knee called the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL). This article tells you how to care for yourself when you go home from the hospital.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

ACL reconstruction - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000189.htm

# ACL reconstruction - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You had surgery to repair a damaged ligament in your knee called the anterior
cruciate ligament (ACL). This article tells you how to care for yourself when
you go home from the hospital.

## When You're in the Hospital

You had surgery to reconstruct your anterior cruciate ligament (ACL). The
surgeon drilled holes in the bones of your knee and placed a new ligament
through these holes. The new ligament was then attached to the bone. You may
also have had surgery to repair other tissue in your knee.

## What to Expect at Home

You may need help taking care of yourself when you first go home. Plan for a
spouse, friend, or neighbor to help you. It can take from a few days to a few
months to be ready to return to work. How soon you return to work will depend
on the kind of work you do. It often takes 4 to 6 months to return to your
full level of activity and take part in sports again after surgery.

## Activity

Your health care provider will ask you to rest when you first go home. You
will be told to:

    * Keep your leg propped up on 1 or 2 pillows. Place the pillows under your foot or calf muscle. This helps keep swelling down. Do this 4 to 6 times a day for the first 2 or 3 days after surgery. DO NOT put the pillow behind your knee. Keep your knee straight.
    * Be careful not to get the dressing on your knee wet.
    * DO NOT use a heating pad. 

You may need to wear special support stockings to help prevent blood clots
from forming. Your provider will also give you exercises to keep the blood
moving in your foot, ankle, and leg. These exercises will also lower your risk
for blood clots.

You will need to use crutches when you go home. You may be able to begin
putting your full weight on your repaired leg without crutches 2 to 3 weeks
after surgery, if your surgeon says it is OK. If you had work on your knee in
addition to ACL reconstruction, it may take 4 to 8 weeks to regain full use of
your knee. Ask your surgeon how long you will need to be on crutches.

You may also need to wear a special knee brace. The brace will be set so that
your knee can move only a certain amount in any direction. DO NOT change the
settings on the brace yourself.

    * Ask your provider or physical therapist about sleeping without the brace and removing it for showers.
    * When the brace is off for any reason, be careful not to move your knee more than you can when you have the brace on. 

You will need to learn how to go up and down stairs using crutches or with a
knee brace on.

Physical therapy most often begins about 1 to 2 weeks after surgery, however
you can do some simple postoperative knee exercises immediately after surgery.
The duration of physical therapy may last 2 to 6 months. You will need to
limit your activity and movement while your knee mends. Your physical
therapist will give you an exercise program to help you build strength in your
knee and avoid injury.

    * Staying active and building strength in the muscles of your legs will help speed your recovery.
    * Getting full range of motion in your leg soon after surgery is also important. 

## Wound Care

You will go home with a dressing and an ace bandage around your knee. DO NOT
remove them until the provider says it is OK. Until then, keep the dressing
and bandage clean and dry.

You can shower again after your dressing is removed.

    * When you shower, wrap your leg in plastic to keep it from getting wet until your stitches or tape (Steri-Strips) have been removed. Make sure that your provider says this is OK.
    * After that, you may get the incisions wet when you shower. Be sure to dry the area well. 

If you need to change your dressing for any reason, put the ace bandage back
on over the new dressing. Wrap the ace bandage loosely around your knee. Start
from the calf and wrap it around your leg and knee. DO NOT wrap it too
tightly. Keep wearing the ace bandage until your provider tells you it is OK
to remove it.

## Pain

Pain is normal after knee arthroscopy. It should ease up over time.

Your provider will give you a prescription for pain medicine. Get it filled
when you go home so that you have it when you need it. Take your pain medicine
when you start having pain so the pain doesn't get too bad.

You may have received a nerve block during surgery, so that your nerves do not
feel pain. Make sure you take your pain medicine, even when the block is
working. The block will wear off, and pain can return very quickly.

Ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) or another medicine like it may also help. Ask your
provider what other medicines are safe to take with your pain medicine.

DO NOT drive if you are taking narcotic pain medicine. This medicine may make
you too sleepy to drive safely.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

    * Blood is soaking through your dressing, and the bleeding does not stop when you put pressure on the area
    * Pain does not go away after you take pain medicine
    * You have swelling or pain in your calf muscle
    * Your foot or toes look darker than normal or are cool to the touch
    * You have redness, pain, swelling, or yellowish discharge from your incisions
    * You have a temperature higher than 101Â°F (38.3Â°C)

## Alternative Names

Anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction - discharge

## References

Micheo WF, Sepulveda F, Sanchez LA, Amy E. Anterior cruciate ligament sprain.
In: Frontera WR, Silver JK, Rizzo TD, eds. _Essentials of Physical Medicine
and Rehabilitation_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 63.

Niska JA, Petrigliano FA, McAllister DR. Anterior cruciate ligament injuries
(including revision). In: Miller MD, Thompson SR, eds. _DeLee and Drez's
Orthopaedic Sports Medicine_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 98.

Phillips BB, Mihalko MJ. Arthroscopy of the lower extremity. In: Azar FM,
Beaty JH, Canale ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 51.

## Read More

    * ACL reconstruction
    * Anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injury
    * Knee arthroscopy
    * Knee MRI scan
    * Knee pain
    * Osteoarthritis
    * Rheumatoid arthritis

## Patient Instructions

    * Getting your home ready - knee or hip surgery
    * Knee arthroscopy - discharge 

## Review Date 11/5/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Knee Injuries and Disorders

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

