Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007255.htm    
                                Description: Knee microfracture surgery is a common procedure used to repair damaged knee cartilage. Cartilage helps cushion and cover the area where bones meet in the joints.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Knee microfracture surgery

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007255.htm

# Knee microfracture surgery

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Knee microfracture surgery is a common procedure used to repair damaged knee
cartilage. Cartilage helps cushion and cover the area where bones meet in the
joints.

## Description

You will not feel any pain during the surgery. Three types of anesthesia may
be used for knee arthroscopy surgery:

    * Local anesthesia -- You will be given shots of painkillers to numb the knee. You may also be given medicines that relax you.
    * Spinal (regional) anesthesia \-- The pain medicine is injected into a space in your spine. You will be awake but will not be able to feel anything below your waist.
    * General anesthesia \-- You will be asleep and pain-free. 

The surgeon will perform the following steps:

    * Make a one quarter-inch (6 mm) surgical cut on your knee.
    * Place a long, thin tube with a camera on the end through this cut. This is called an arthroscope. The camera is attached to a video monitor in the operating room. This tool lets the surgeon look inside your knee area and work on the joint.
    * Make another cut and passes tools through this opening. A small pointed tool called an awl is used to make very small holes in the bone near the damaged cartilage. These are called microfractures. 

These holes release cells from your bone marrow that can build new cartilage
to replace the damaged tissue.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

You may need this procedure if you have damage to the cartilage:

    * In the knee joint
    * Under the kneecap 

The goal of this surgery is to prevent or slow further damage to the
cartilage. This will help prevent knee arthritis. It can help you delay the
need for a partial or total knee replacement.

This procedure is also used to treat knee pain due to cartilage injuries.

A surgery called autologous chondrocyte implantation or mosaicplasty can also
be done for similar problems.

## Risks

Risks of anesthesia and surgery in general are:

    * Reactions to medicines
    * Breathing problems
    * Bleeding
    * Blood clots
    * Infection 

Risks for microfracture surgery are:

    * Cartilage breakdown over time --Â The new cartilage made by microfracture surgery is not as strong as the body's original cartilage. It can break down more easily.
    * The area with the unstable cartilage can get bigger with time as the degeneration progresses. This can give you more symptoms and pain.
    * Increased stiffness of the knee. 

## Before the Procedure

Always tell your health care provider what drugs you are taking, including
medicines, herbs, or supplements you bought without a prescription.

During the 2 weeks before your surgery:

    * Prepare your home.
    * You may need to stop taking drugs that make it harder for your blood to clot. These include aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), naproxen (Naprosyn, Aleve), and others.
    * Ask your provider which drugs you should still take on the day of your surgery.
    * If you have diabetes, heart disease, or other medical conditions, your surgeon will ask you to see the provider who treats you for these conditions.
    * Tell your provider if you have been drinking a lot of alcohol, more than 1 or 2 drinks a day.
    * If you smoke, try to stop. Ask your provider for help. Smoking can slow down wound and bone healing.
    * Always let your provider know about any cold, flu, fever, herpes breakout, or other illness you may have before your surgery. 

On the day of your surgery:

    * You may be asked not to drink or eat anything for 6 to 12 hours before the procedure.
    * Take the drugs your doctor told you to take with a small sip of water.
    * Your doctor or nurse will tell you when to arrive at the hospital. 

## After the Procedure

Physical therapy may begin in the recovery room right after your surgery. You
will also need to use a machine, called a CPM machine. This machine will
gently exercise your leg for 6 to 8 hours a day for several weeks. This
machine is most often used for 6 weeks after surgery. Ask your provider how
long you will use it.

Your doctor will increase the exercises you do over time until you can fully
move your knee again. The exercises may make the new cartilage heal better.

You will need to keep your weight off your knee for 6 to 8 weeks unless told
otherwise. You will need crutches to get around. Keeping the weight off the
knee helps the new cartilage grow.

You will need to go to physical therapy and do exercises at home for 3 to 6
months after surgery.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Many people do well after this surgery. Recovery time can be slow. Many people
can go back to sports or other intense activities in about 9 to 12 months.
Athletes in very intense sports may not be able to return to their former
level.

People under age 40 with a recent injury often have the best results. People
that are not overweight also have better results.

## Alternative Names

Cartilage regeneration - knee

## Patient Instructions

    * Getting your home ready - knee or hip surgery
    * Knee arthroscopy - discharge 
    * Surgical wound care - open

## Images

    * ![The structure of a joint](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19399t.jpg)The structure of a joint

## References

Frank RM, Lehrman B, Yanke AB, Cole BJ. Chondroplasty and microfracture. In:
Miller MD, Browne JA, Cole BJ, Cosgarea AJ, Owens BD, eds. _Operative
Techniques: Knee Surgery_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 10.

Harris JD, Cole BJ. Knee articular cartilage restoration procedures. In: Noyes
FR, Barber-Westin SD, eds. _Noyes' Knee Disorders: Surgery, Rehabilitation,
Clinical Outcomes_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 31.

McCoy BW, Hussain WM, Griesser MJ, Parker RD. Patellofemoral pain. In: Miller
MD, Thompson SR, eds. _DeLee and Drez's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine:
Principles and Practice_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 105.

Miller RH, Azar FM. Knee injuries. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale ST, eds.
_Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 45.

## Review Date 4/9/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cartilage
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CartilageDisorders_thumb.jpg)Cartilage
Disorders _Read more_

![Knee Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KneeInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Knee
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

