Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000681.htm    
                                Description: A ligament is a band of tissue that connects a bone to another bone. The anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) is located inside your knee joint and connects the bones of your upper and lower leg.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injury - aftercare

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000681.htm

# Anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injury - aftercare

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A ligament is a band of tissue that connects a bone to another bone. The
anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) is located inside your knee joint and
connects the bones of your upper and lower leg.

An ACL injury occurs when the ligament is stretched or torn. A partial ACL
tear occurs when only part of the ligament is torn. A complete ACL tear occurs
when the entire ligament is torn into two pieces.

## More About Your Injury

The ACL is one of several ligaments that keep your knee stable. It helps keep
your leg bones in place and allows your knee to move back and forth.

An ACL injury can occur if you:

    * Get hit very hard on the side of your knee, such as during a football tackle
    * Twist your knee
    * Quickly stop moving and change direction while running, landing from a jump, or turning 
    * Land awkwardly after jumping

Skiers and people who play basketball, football, or soccer are more likely to
have this type of injury. Women are more likely to tear their ACL than men
when they participate in sports.

## What to Expect

It is common to hear a "popping" sound when an ACL injury occurs. You also may
have:

    * Knee swelling within a few hours of injury
    * Knee pain, especially when you try to put weight on the injured leg 

If you have a mild injury, you may notice that your knee feels unstable or
seems to "give way" when using it. ACL injuries often occur along with other
knee injuries, such as to the cartilage called the meniscus. These injuries
may also need to be treated with surgery.

After examining your knee, your doctor may order these imaging tests:

    * X-rays to check for damage to the bones in your knee.
    * An MRI of the knee. An MRI machine takes special pictures of the tissues inside your knee. The pictures will show whether these tissues have been stretched or torn.

If you have an ACL injury, you may need:

    * Crutches to walk until the swelling and pain get better
    * A brace to support and stabilize your knee
    * Physical therapy to help improve joint motion and leg strength
    * Surgery to reconstruct the ACL

Some people can live and function normally with a torn ACL. However, most
people feel like their knee is unstable and may "give out" with more rigorous
activities. Unrepaired ACL tears can lead to further knee damage, especially
to the meniscus.

## Self-care at Home

Follow R.I.C.E. to help reduce pain and swelling:

    *  **Rest** your leg. Avoid putting weight on it.
    *  **Ice** your knee for 20 minutes at a time 3 to 4 times a day.
    *  **Compress** the area by wrapping it with an elastic bandage or compression wrap.
    *  **Elevate** your leg by raising it above the level of your heart. 

You can use ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), or naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn) to reduce
pain and swelling. Acetaminophen (Tylenol) helps with pain, but not with
swelling. You can buy these pain medicines at the store.

    * Talk with your doctor before using pain medicines if you have heart disease, high blood pressure, kidney disease, or have had stomach ulcers or internal bleeding in the past.
    * DO NOT take more than the amount recommended on the bottle or by your doctor.

## Activity

After your injury, you should not play sports or do other strenuous activities
until you and your doctor decide what treatment is best for you.

If you have surgery to reconstruct your ACL:

    * Follow instructions on self-care at home.
    * You will need physical therapy to regain the full use of your knee.
    * Recovery after surgery can take about 6 months. But you should be able to do the same activities you did before. 

If you do not have surgery:

    * You will need to work with a physical therapist to lessen swelling and pain and regain enough range of motion and strength in your leg to resume activity. This may take a few months.
    * Depending on your injury, you may not be able to do certain types of activities that could re-injure your knee. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your health care provider if you have any of the following:

    * Increase in swelling or pain
    * Self-care does not seem to help
    * You lose feeling in your foot
    * Your foot or leg feels cold or changes color
    * Your knee suddenly locks and you can't straighten it 

If you have surgery, call your surgeon if you have:

    * A fever of 100Â°F (38Â°C) or higher
    * Drainage from the incisions
    * Bleeding that won't stop 

## Alternative Names

Cruciate ligament injury - aftercare; ACL injury - aftercare; Knee injury -
anterior cruciate

## References

Members of the Writing, Review, and Voting Panels of the AUC on Prevention and
Treatment of Anterior Cruciate Ligament Injuries, Quinn RH, Saunders JO, et
al. The American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons appropriate use criteria on
the management of anterior cruciate ligament injuries. _J Bone Joint Surg Am_.
2016;98(2):153-155. PMID: 26791036 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26791036.

Niska JA, Petrigliano FA, McAllister DR. Anterior cruciate ligament injuries
(including revision). In: Miller MD, Thompson SR, eds. _DeLee and Drez's
Orthopaedic Sports Medicine: Principles and Practice_. 4th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 98.

Reider B, Davies GJ, Provencher MT. Anterior cruciate ligament injuries In:
Reider B, Davies GJ, Provencher MT, eds. _Orthopaedic Rehabilitation of the
Athlete_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 32.

## Review Date 4/21/2019

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Knee Injuries and Disorders

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

