Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001222.htm    
                                Description: Baker cyst is a buildup of joint fluid (synovial fluid) that forms a cyst behind the knee.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Baker cyst

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001222.htm

# Baker cyst

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Baker cyst is a buildup of joint fluid (synovial fluid) that forms a cyst
behind the knee.

## Causes

A Baker cyst is caused by swelling in the knee. The swelling occurs due to an
increase in synovial fluid. This fluid lubricates the knee joint. When
pressure builds up, fluid squeezes into the back of the knee.

Baker cyst commonly occurs with:

    * A tear in the meniscal cartilage of the knee
    * Cartilage injuries
    * Knee arthritis (in older adults)
    * Rheumatoid arthritis
    * Other knee problems that cause knee swelling and synovitis

## Symptoms

In most cases, a person may have no symptoms. A large cyst may cause some
discomfort or stiffness. There may be a painless or painful swelling behind
the knee.

The cyst may feel like a water-filled balloon. Sometimes, the cyst may break
open (rupture), causing pain, swelling, and bruising on the back of the knee
and calf.

It is important to know whether pain or swelling is caused by a Baker cyst or
a blood clot. A blood clot (deep venous thrombosis)Â can also cause pain,
swelling, and bruising on the back of the knee and calf. A blood clot may be
dangerous and requires medical attention right away.

## Exams and Tests

During a physical exam, the health care provider will look for a soft lump in
the back of the knee. If the cyst is small, comparing the affected knee to the
normal knee can be helpful. There may be a decrease in range of motion caused
by pain or by the size of the cyst. In some cases, there will be catching,
locking, pain, or other signs and symptoms of a meniscal tear.

Shining a light through the cyst (transillumination) can show that the growth
is fluid filled.

X-rays will not show the cyst or a meniscal tear, but they will show other
problems that may be present, including arthritis.

MRIs can help the provider see the cyst and look for any meniscal injury.

## Treatment

Often, no treatment is needed. The provider can watch the cyst over time.

If the cyst is painful, the goal of treatment is to correct the problem that
is causing the cyst.

Sometimes, a cyst can be drained (aspirated). In rare cases, it is removed
with surgery if it becomes very large or causes symptoms. The cyst has a high
chance of returning if the underlying cause is not addressed. The surgery may
also damage nearby blood vessels and nerves.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

A Baker cyst will not cause any long-term harm, but it can be annoying and
painful. The symptoms of Baker cysts often come and go.

Long-term disability is rare. Most people improve with time or with surgery.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have swelling behind the knee that becomes large or
painful. Pain could be a sign of infection. Also call your provider when you
have increased swelling in your calf and leg and shortness of breath. This can
be a sign of blood clots.

If the lump grows quickly, or you have night pain, severe pain, or fever, you
will need more tests to make sure you do not have other types of tumors.

## Alternative Names

Popliteal cyst; Bulge-knee

## Patient Instructions

    * Knee arthroscopy - discharge 

## Images

    * ![Baker cyst](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19646t.jpg)Baker cyst

## References

Biundo JJ. Bursitis, tendinitis, and other periarticular disorders and sports
medicine. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 263.

Crenshaw AH. Soft-tissue procedures and corrective osteotomies about the knee.
In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_.
13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 9.

Huddleston JI, Goodman S. Hip and knee pain. In: Firestein GS, Budd RC,
Gabriel SE, McInnes IB, O'Dell JR, eds. _Kelley and Firestein's Textbook of
Rheumatology_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 48.

Rosenberg D, Amadera JED. Baker cyst. In: Frontera WR, Silver JK, Rizzo TD,
eds. _Essentials of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation_. 3rd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 64.

## Review Date 4/9/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Knee Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KneeInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Knee
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

