Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007345.htm    
                                Description: A computed tomography (CT) scan of the knee is a test that uses x-rays to take detailed images of the knee.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Knee CT scan

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007345.htm

# Knee CT scan

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A computed tomography (CT) scan of the knee is a test that uses x-rays to take
detailed images of the knee.

## How the Test is Performed

You will lie on a narrow table that slides into the center of the CT scanner.

When you are inside the scanner, the machine's x-ray beam rotates around you.
(Modern "spiral" scanners can perform the exam without stopping.)

A computer makes several images of the body area. These are called slices.
These images can be stored, viewed on a monitor, or printed on film. Models of
the body area in 3-D can be created by adding the slices together.

You must stay still during the exam, because movement blurs the pictures. You
may have to hold your breath for short periods of time.

The scan should take less than 20 minutes.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Some exams require a special dye, called contrast, to be injected into your
body before the test. Contrast helps certain areas show up better on the
x-rays.

    * Contrast can be given through a vein (IV). If contrast is used, you may also be asked not to eat or drink anything for 4 to 6 hours before the test.
    * Let your health care provider know if you have ever had a reaction to contrast. You may need to take medicines before the test to avoid this problem.
    * Before receiving the contrast, tell your provider if you take the diabetes medicine metformin (Glucophage). You may need to take extra steps if you are taking this medicine.

Too much weight can cause damage to the scanner's working parts. Ask about the
weight limit before the test if you weigh more than 300 pounds (135
kilograms).

You will need to remove jewelry and wear a hospital gown during the CT exam.

## How the Test will Feel

Some people may be uncomfortable lying on the hard table.

Contrast given through an IV may cause:

    * Slight burning feeling
    * Metallic taste in the mouth
    * Warm flushing of the body 

These feelings are normal and usually go away within a few seconds.

## Why the Test is Performed

A CT scan can quickly create more detailed pictures of the knee than standard
x-rays. The test may be used to detect:

    * Abscess or infection
    * Broken bone
    * Examine fractures and pattern of fractures
    * The cause of pain or other problems in the knee joint (usually when MRI can't be done)
    * Masses and tumors, including cancer 
    * Healing problems or scar tissue following surgery

A CT scan may also be used to guide a surgeon to the right area during a
biopsy.

## Normal Results

Results are considered normal if no problems are seen.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be due to:

    * Abscess (collection of pus)
    * Arthritis
    * Broken bone
    * Bone tumors or cancer 
    * Healing problems or scar tissue after surgery

## Risks

Risks of CT scans include:

    * Exposure to radiation
    * Allergy to contrast dye
    * Birth defect if done during pregnancy 

CT scans give off more radiation than regular x-rays. Many x-rays or CT scans
over time may increase your risk for cancer. However, the risk from any one
scan is small. You and your provider should discuss this risk compared with
the value of an accurate diagnosis for the problem.

Let your provider know if you have ever had an allergic reaction to injected
contrast dye.

    * The most common type of contrast contains iodine. You may have nausea or vomiting, sneezing, itching, or hives if you have this an iodine allergy.
    * If you need to have this kind of contrast, you may need antihistamines (such as Benadryl) or steroids before the test.
    * The kidneys help remove iodine out of the body. You may need extra fluids after the test to help rid your body of the iodine if you have kidney disease or diabetes. 

Rarely, the dye may cause a serious allergic response called anaphylaxis. This
can be life-threatening. Notify the scanner operator right away if you have
any trouble breathing during the test. Scanners have an intercom and speakers
so the operator can hear you at all times.

## Alternative Names

CAT scan - knee; Computed axial tomography scan - knee; Computed tomography
scan - knee

## References

Madoff SD, Burak JS, Math KR, Walz DM. Knee imaging techniques and normal
anatomy. In: Scott WN, ed. _Insall & Scott Surgery of the Knee_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 5.

Sanders T. Imaging of the knee. In: Miller MD, Thompson SR, eds. _DeLee and
Drez's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 93.

Shaw AS, Prokop M. Computed tomography. In: Adam A, Dixon AK, Gillard JH,
Schaefer-Prokop CM, eds. _Grainger & Allison's Diagnostic Radiology: A
Textbook of Medical Imaging_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill
Livingstone; 2015:chap 4.

Thomsen HS, Reimer P. Intravascular contrast media for radiography, CT, MRI
and ultrasound. In: Adam A, Dixon AK, Gillard JH, Schaefer-Prokop CM, eds.
_Grainger & Allison's Diagnostic Radiology: A Textbook of Medical Imaging_.
6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone; 2015:chap 2.

## Review Date 3/17/2019

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![CT Scans](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CTScan_thumb.jpg)CT Scans _Read
more_

![Knee Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KneeInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Knee
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

