Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000684.htm    
                                Description: The meniscus is a c-shaped piece of cartilage in your knee joint. You have two in each knee.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Meniscus tears - aftercare

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000684.htm

# Meniscus tears - aftercare

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The meniscus is a c-shaped piece of cartilage in your knee joint. You have two
in each knee.

    * Meniscus cartilage is a tough but flexible tissue that acts as a cushion between the ends of bones in a joint.
    * Meniscus tears refer to tears in this shock-absorbing cartilage of the knee.

## More About Your Injury

The meniscus forms a cushion between the bones in your knee to protect the
joint. The meniscus:

    * Acts like a shock-absorber
    * Helps distribute the weight to the cartilage
    * Helps to stabilize your knee joint
    * Can tear and limit your ability to flex and extend your knee

A meniscus tear can occur if you:

    * Twist or over-flex your knee
    * Quickly stop moving and change direction while running, landing from a jump, or turning
    * Kneel down
    * Squat down low and lift something heavy
    * Get hit on your knee, such as during a football tackle 

As you get older, your meniscus ages too, and it can become easier to injure.

## What to Expect

You may feel a "pop" when a meniscus injury occurs. You also may have:

    * Knee pain inside the joint, which gets worse with pressure on the joint
    * Knee swelling that occurs the next day after injury or after activities
    * Knee joint pain when walking
    * Locking or catching of your knee
    * Difficulty squatting 

After examining your knee, the doctor may order these imaging tests:

    * X-rays to check for damage to the bones and the presence of arthritis in your knee.
    * An MRI of the knee. An MRI machine takes special pictures of the tissues inside your knee. The pictures will show whether these tissues have been stretched or torn.  

If you have a meniscus tear, you may need:

    * Crutches to walk until the swelling and pain get better
    * A brace to support and stabilize your knee
    * Physical therapy to help improve joint motion and leg strength
    * Surgery to repair or remove the torn meniscus 
    * To avoid squatting or twisting movements

Treatment may depend on your age, activity level, and where the tear occurs.
For mild tears, you may be able to treat the injury with rest and self-care.

For other types of tears, or if you are younger in age, you may need knee
arthroscopy (surgery) to repair or trim the meniscus. In this type of surgery,
small cuts are made to the knee. A small camera and small surgical tools are
inserted to repair the tear.

A meniscus transplant may be needed if the meniscus tear is so severe that all
or nearly all of the meniscus cartilage is torn or has to be removed. The new
meniscus can help with knee pain and possibly prevent future arthritis.

## Self-care at Home

Follow R.I.C.E. to help reduce pain and swelling:

    *  **Rest** your leg. Avoid putting weight on it.
    *  **Ice** your knee for 20 minutes at a time, 3 to 4 times a day.
    *  **Compress** the area by wrapping it with an elastic bandage or compression wrap.
    *  **Elevate** your leg by raising it above the level of your heart. 

You can use ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), or naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn) to reduce
pain and swelling. Acetaminophen (Tylenol) helps with pain, but not with
swelling. You can buy these pain medicines at the store.

    * Talk with your doctor before using these medicines if you have heart disease, high blood pressure, kidney disease, or have had stomach ulcers or internal bleeding in the past.
    * DO NOT take more than the amount recommended on the bottle or by your doctor. 

## Activity

You should not put all of your weight on your leg if it hurts or if your
doctor tells you not to. Rest and self-care may be enough to allow the tear to
heal. You may need to use crutches.

Afterward, you will learn exercises to make the muscles, ligaments, and
tendons around your knee stronger and more flexible.

If you have surgery, you may need physical therapy to regain the full use of
your knee. Recovery can take a few weeks to a few months. Under your doctor's
guidance, you should be able to do the same activities you did before.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your health care provider if:

    * You have increased swelling or pain
    * Self-care does not seem to help
    * Your knee locks and you can't straighten it
    * Your knee becomes more unstable

If you have surgery, call your surgeon if you have:

    * A fever of 100Â°F (38Â°C) or higher
    * Drainage from the incisions
    * Bleeding that won't stop

## Alternative Names

Knee cartilage tear - aftercare

## References

Lento P, Marshall B, Akuthota V. Meniscal injuries. In: Frontera, WR, Silver
JK, Rizzo TD, Jr, eds. _Essentials of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation:
Musculoskeletal Disorders, Pain, and Rehabilitation_. 4th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 72.

Maak TG, Rodeo SA. Meniscal injuries. In: Miller MD, Thompson SR, eds. _DeLee
and Drez's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine: Principles and Practice_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 96.

Phillips BB, Mihalko MJ. Arthroscopy of the lower extremity. In: Azar FM,
Beaty JH, Canale ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 51.

## Review Date 4/21/2019

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Cartilage Disorders
    * Knee Injuries and Disorders

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

