Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000452.htm    
                                Description: Anterior knee pain is pain that occurs at the front and center of the knee. It can be caused by many different problems, including:    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Anterior knee pain

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000452.htm

# Anterior knee pain

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Anterior knee pain is pain that occurs at the front and center of the knee. It
can be caused by many different problems, including:

    * Chondromalacia of the patella -- the softening and breakdown of the tissue (cartilage) on the underside of the kneecap (patella)
    * Runner's kneeÂ -- sometimes called patellar tendinitis
    * Lateral compression syndrome -- the patella tracks more to the outside part of the knee
    * Quadriceps tendinitis -- pain and tenderness at the quadriceps tendon attachment to the patella
    * Patella maltracking -- instability of the patella on the knee

## Causes

Your kneecap (patella) sits over the front of your knee joint. As you bend or
straighten your knee, the underside of the patella glides over the bones that
make up the knee.

Strong tendons help attach the kneecap to the bones and muscles that surround
the knee. These tendons are called:

    * The patellar tendon (where the kneecap attaches to the shin bone)
    * The quadriceps tendon (where the thigh muscles attach to the top of the kneecap) 

Anterior knee pain begins when the kneecap does not move properly and rubs
against the lower part of the thigh bone. This may occur because:

    * The kneecap is in an abnormal position (also called poor alignment of the patellofemoral joint).
    * There is tightness or weakness of the muscles on the front and back of your thigh.
    * You are doing too much activity that places extra stress on the kneecap (such as running, jumping or twisting, skiing, or playing soccer).
    * The groove in the thighbone where the kneecap normally rests is too shallow.
    * You have flat feet. 

Anterior knee pain is more common in:

    * People who are overweight
    * People who have had a dislocation, fracture, or other injury to the kneecap
    * Runners, jumpers, skiers, bicyclists, and soccer players who exercise often
    * Teenagers and healthy young adults, more often girls 

Other possible causes of anterior knee pain include:

    * Arthritis
    * Pinching of the inner lining of the knee during movement (called synovial impingement or plica syndrome) 

## Symptoms

Anterior knee pain is a dull, aching pain that is most often felt:

    * Behind the kneecap (patella)
    * Below the kneecap
    * On the sides of the kneecap 

One common symptom is a grating or grinding feeling when the knee is flexed
(when the ankle is brought closer to the back of the thigh).

Symptoms may be more noticeable with:

    * Deep knee bends
    * Going down stairs
    * Running downhill
    * Standing up after sitting for awhile 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. The knee may be tender
and mildly swollen. Also, the kneecap may not be perfectly lined up with the
thigh bone (femur).

When you flex your knee, you may feel a grinding feeling below the kneecap.
Pressing the kneecap when the knee is straightening out may be painful.

Your provider may want you to do a single leg squat to look at muscle
imbalance and your core stability.

X-rays are very often normal. However, a special x-ray view of the kneecap may
show signs of arthritis or tilting.

MRI scans are rarely needed.

## Treatment

Resting the knee for a short period of time and taking nonsteroidal anti-
inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as ibuprofen, naproxen, or aspirin may help
relieve pain.

Other things you can do to relieve anterior knee pain include:

    * Change the way you exercise.
    * Learn exercises to both strengthen and stretch the quadriceps and hamstring muscles.
    * Learn exercises to strengthen your core.
    * Lose weight (if you are overweight).
    * Use special shoe inserts and support devices (orthotics) if you have flat feet.
    * Tape your knee to realign the kneecap.
    * Wear the correct running or sports shoes.

Rarely, surgery for pain behind the kneecap is needed. During the surgery:

    * Kneecap cartilage that has been damaged may be removed. 
    * Changes may be made to the tendons to help the kneecap move more evenly.
    * Kneecap may be realigned to allow for better joint movement.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Anterior knee pain often improves with a change in activity, exercise therapy,
and the use of NSAIDs.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of this disorder.

## Alternative Names

Patellofemoral syndrome; Chondromalacia patella; Runner's knee; Patellar
tendinitis; Jumper's knee

## Images

    * ![Chondromalacia of the patella](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8892t.jpg)Chondromalacia of the patella
    * ![Runners knee](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9858t.jpg)Runners knee

## References

McCoy BW, Hussain WM, Griesser MJ, Parker RD. Patellofemoral pain. In: Miller
MD, Thompson SR, eds. _DeLee & Drezâs Orthopaedic Sports Medicine._ 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 105.

Tan EW, Cosgarea AJ. In: Miller MD, Thompson SR eds. Patellar instability.
_DeLeeÂ & Drez's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine._ 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 104.

## Review Date 11/20/2017

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Arthritis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ArthritisII_thumb.jpg)Arthritis
_Read more_

![Knee Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KneeInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Knee
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

