Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000680.htm    
                                Description: A ligament is a band of tissue that connects a bone to another bone. The posterior cruciate ligament (PCL) is located inside your knee joint and connects the bones of your upper and lower leg.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Posterior cruciate ligament (PCL) injury - aftercare

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000680.htm

# Posterior cruciate ligament (PCL) injury - aftercare

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A ligament is a band of tissue that connects a bone to another bone. The
posterior cruciate ligament (PCL) is located inside your knee joint and
connects the bones of your upper and lower leg.

A PCL injury occurs when the ligament is stretched or torn. A partial PCL tear
occurs when only part of the ligament is torn. A complete PCL tear occurs when
the entire ligament is torn into two pieces.

## More About Your Injury

The PCL is one of several ligaments that keep your knee stable. The PCL helps
keep your leg bones in place and allows your knee to move back and forth. It
is the strongest ligament in the knee. PCL tears often occur as a result of a
severe knee injury.

Injuring the PCL takes a lot of force. It can occur if you:

    * Get hit very hard on the front of your knee, such as hitting your knee on the dashboard during a car accident
    * Fall hard on a bent knee
    * Bend the knee too far backward (hyperflexion)
    * Land the wrong way after jumping 
    * Dislocate your knee

PCL injuries commonly occur with other knee damage, including injuries to the
nerves and blood vessels. Skiers and people who play basketball, football, or
soccer are more likely to have this type of injury.

## What to Expect

With a PCL injury, you may have:

    * Mild pain that may get worse over time
    * Your knee is unstable and can shift as if it "gives way"
    * Knee swelling that starts right after the injury
    * Knee stiffness due to swelling
    * Difficulty walking and going down stairs 

After examining your knee, the doctor may order these imaging tests:

    * X-rays to check for damage to the bones in your knee.
    * An MRI of the knee. An MRI machine takes special pictures of the tissues inside your knee. The pictures will show whether these tissues have been stretched or torn.
    * A CT scan or an arteriogram to look for any injuries to your blood vessels. 

If you have a PCL injury, you may need:

    * Crutches to walk until the swelling and pain get better
    * A brace to support and stabilize your knee
    * Physical therapy to help improve joint motion and leg strength
    * Surgery to rebuild the PCL and possibly other tissues in the knee 

If you have a severe injury, such as a knee dislocation when more than one
ligament is torn, you will need knee surgery to repair the joint. For milder
injuries, you may not need surgery. A lot of people can live and function
normally with only a torn PCL. However, if you are younger, having a torn PCL
and instability of your knee may lead to arthritis as you age. Talk with your
doctor about the best treatment for you.

## Self-care at Home

Follow R.I.C.E. to help reduce pain and swelling:

    *  **Rest** your leg and avoid putting weight on it.
    *  **Ice** your knee for 20 minutes at a time, 3 to 4 times a day.
    *  **Compress** the area by wrapping it with an elastic bandage or compression wrap.
    *  **Elevate** your leg by raising it above the level of your heart. 

You can use ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) or naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn) to reduce
pain and swelling. Acetaminophen (Tylenol) helps with pain, but not swelling.
You can buy these pain medicines at the store.

    * Talk with your health care provider before using these medicines if you have heart disease, high blood pressure, kidney disease, or have had stomach ulcers or internal bleeding in the past.
    * DO NOT take more than the amount recommended on the bottle or by your provider. 

## Activity

If you have surgery to repair (reconstruct) your PCL:

    * You will need physical therapy to regain the full use of your knee.
    * Recovery can take at least 6 months. 

If you do not have surgery to repair (reconstruct) your PCL:

    * You will need to work with a physical therapist to lessen swelling and pain and regain enough strength in your leg to resume activity.
    * Your knee will likely be placed in a brace and may have restricted motion.
    * It may take a few months to recover. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

    * You have an increase in swelling or pain
    * Self-care does not seem to help
    * You lose feeling in your foot
    * Your foot or leg feels cold or changes color 

If you have surgery, call the doctor if you have:

    * A fever of 100Â°F (38Â°C) or higher
    * Drainage from the incisions
    * Bleeding that won't stop 

## Alternative Names

Cruciate ligament injury - aftercare; PCL injury - aftercare; Knee injury -
posterior cruciate ligament

## Images

    * ![Ligamento cruciforme posterior de la rodilla](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9763t.jpg)Posterior cruciate ligament of the knee

## References

Bedi A, Musahl V, Cowan JB. Management of posterior cruciate ligament
injuries: an evidence-based review. _J Am Acad Orthop Surg_.
2016;24(5):277-289. PMID: 27097125 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27097125.

Petrigliano FA, Montgomery SR, Johnson JS, McAllister DR. Posterior cruciate
ligament injuries. In: Miller MD, Thompson SR, eds. _DeLee and Drez's
Orthopaedic Sports Medicine: Principles and Practice_. 4th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 99.

Sheng A, Splittgerber L. Posterior cruciate ligament sprain. In: Frontera, WR,
Silver JK, Rizzo TD Jr, eds. _Essentials of Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation: Musculoskeletal Disorders, Pain, and Rehabilitation_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 76.

## Review Date 4/21/2019

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Knee Injuries and Disorders

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

