Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002972.htm    
                                Description: Knee arthroscopy is surgery that uses a tiny camera to look inside your knee. Small cuts are made to insert the camera and small surgical tools into your knee for the procedure.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Knee arthroscopy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002972.htm

# Knee arthroscopy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Knee arthroscopy is surgery that uses a tiny camera to look inside your knee.
Small cuts are made to insert the camera and small surgical tools into your
knee for the procedure.

## Description

Three different types of pain relief (anesthesia) may be used for knee
arthroscopy surgery:

    * Local anesthesia. Your knee may be numbed with pain medicine. You may also be given medicines that relax you. You will stay awake.
    * Spinal anesthesia. This is also called regional anesthesia. The pain medicine is injected into a space in your spine. You will be awake but will not be able to feel anything below your waist.
    * General anesthesia. You will be asleep and pain-free.
    * Regional nerve block (femoral or adductor canal block). This is another type of regional anesthesia. The pain medicine is injected around the nerve in your groin. You will be asleep during the operation. This type of anesthesia will block out pain so that you need less general anesthesia.

A cuff-like device may be put around your thigh to help control bleeding
during the procedure.

The surgeon will make 2 or 3 small cuts around your knee. Salt water (saline)
will be pumped into your knee to inflate the knee.

A narrow tube with a tiny camera on the end will be inserted through one of
the cuts. The camera is attached to a video monitor that lets the surgeon see
inside the knee.

The surgeon may put other small surgery tools inside your knee through the
other cuts. The surgeon will then fix or remove the problem in your knee.

At the end of your surgery, the saline will be drained from your knee. The
surgeon will close your cuts with sutures (stitches) and cover them with a
dressing. Many surgeons take pictures of the procedure from the video monitor.
You may be able to view these pictures after the operation so that you can see
what was done.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Arthroscopy may be recommended for these knee problems:

    * Torn meniscus. Meniscus is cartilage that cushions the space between the bones in the knee. Surgery is done to repair or remove it.
    * Torn or damaged anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) or posterior cruciate ligament (PCL).
    * Torn or damaged collateral ligament.
    * Swollen (inflamed) or damaged lining of the joint. This lining is called the synovium.
    * Kneecap (patella) that is out of position (misalignment).
    * Small pieces of broken cartilage in the knee joint.
    * Removal of a Baker cyst. This is a swelling behind the knee that is filled with fluid. Sometimes the problem occurs when there is swelling and pain (inflammation) from other causes, like arthritis.
    * Repair of defect in cartilage.
    * Some fractures of the bones of the knee.

## Risks

The risks for anesthesia and surgery are:

    * Allergic reactions to medicines
    * Breathing problems
    * Bleeding
    * Infection

Additional risks for this surgery include:

    * Bleeding into the knee joint
    * Damage to the cartilage, meniscus, or ligaments in the knee
    * Blood clot in the leg
    * Injury to a blood vessel or nerve
    * Infection in the knee joint
    * Knee stiffness 

## Before the Procedure

Always tell your health care provider what medicines you are taking, even
drugs, supplements, or herbs you bought without a prescription.

During the 2 weeks before your surgery:

    * You may be told to stop taking medicines that make it harder for your blood to clot. These include aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), naproxen (Naprosyn, Aleve), and other blood thinners.
    * Ask which medicines you should still take on the day of your surgery.
    * Tell your provider if you have been drinking a lot of alcohol (more than 1 or 2 drinks a day).
    * If you smoke, try to stop. Ask your provider for help. Smoking can slow down wound and bone healing. It also leads to a higher rate of surgical complications.
    * Always let your provider know about any cold, flu, fever, herpes breakout, or other illness you have before your surgery. 

On the day of your surgery:

    * You will most often be asked not to drink or eat anything for 6 to 12 hours before the procedure.
    * Take the medicines you have been told to take with a small sip of water.
    * You will be told when to arrive at the hospital.

## After the Procedure

You will have an ace bandage on your knee over the dressing. Most people go
home the same day they have surgery. Your provider will give you exercises to
do that you can start after surgery. You may also be referred to a physical
therapist.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Full recovery after knee arthroscopy will depend on what type of problem was
treated.

Problems such as a torn meniscus, broken cartilage, Baker cyst, and problems
with the synovium are often easily fixed. Many people stay active after these
surgeries.

Recovery from simple procedures is fast in most cases. You may need to use
crutches for a while after some types of surgery. Your provider may also
prescribe pain medicine.

Recovery will take longer if you have had a more complex procedure. If parts
of your knee have been repaired or rebuilt, you may not be able to walk
without crutches or a knee brace for several weeks. Full recovery may take
several months to a year.

If you also have arthritis in your knee, you will still have arthritis
symptoms after surgery to repair other damage to your knee.

## Alternative Names

Knee scope - arthroscopic lateral retinacular release; Synovectomy - knee;
Patellar (knee) debridement; Meniscus repair; Lateral release; Knee surgery;
Meniscus - arthroscopy; Collateral ligament - arthroscopy

## Patient Instructions

    * ACL reconstruction - discharge 
    * Getting your home ready - knee or hip surgery
    * Knee arthroscopy - discharge 
    * Surgical wound care - open

## Images

    * ![Knee arthroscopy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23176t.jpg)Knee arthroscopy
    * ![Knee arthroscopy - series - Normal anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/12686t.jpg)Knee arthroscopy - series

## References

Griffin JW, Hart JA, Thompson SR, Miller MD. Basics of knee arthroscopy. In:
Miller MD, Thompson SR, eds. _DeLee and Drez's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine_.
4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 94.

Phillips BB, Mihalko MJ. Arthroscopy of the lower extremity. In: Azar FM,
Beaty JH, Canale ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 51.

Waterman BR, Owens BD. Arthroscopic synovectomy and posterior knee
arthroscopy. In: Miller MD, Browne JA, Cole BJ, Cosgarea AJ, Owens BD, eds.
_Operative Techniques: Knee Surgery_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2018:chap 3.

## Review Date 3/17/2019

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Knee Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KneeInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Knee
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

