Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001074.htm    
                                Description: An anterior cruciate ligament injury is the over-stretching or tearing of the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) in the knee. A tear may be partial or complete.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injury

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001074.htm

# Anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injury

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An anterior cruciate ligament injury is the over-stretching or tearing of the
anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) in the knee. A tear may be partial or
complete.

![Anterior cruciate ligament \(ACL\)
injury](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/8717.jpg)

## Considerations

The knee joint is located where the end of the thigh bone (femur) meets the
top of the shin bone (tibia).

![ACL degrees](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/18002.jpg)

Four main ligaments connect these two bones:

    * Medial collateral ligament (MCL) runs along the inside of the knee. It prevents the knee from bending in.
    * Lateral collateral ligament (LCL) runs along the outside of the knee. It prevents the knee from bending out.
    * Anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) is in the middle of the knee. It prevents the shin bone from sliding out in front of the thigh bone.
    * Posterior cruciate ligament (PCL) works with the ACL. It prevents the shin bone from sliding backwards under the femur. 

Women are more likely to have an ACL tear than men.

## Causes

An ACL injury can occur if you:

    * Get hit very hard on the side of your knee, such as during a football tackle
    * Overextending your knee joint
    * Quickly stop moving and change direction while running, landing from a jump, or turning 

Basketball, football, soccer, and skiing are common sports linked to ACL
tears.

![ACL injury](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/18003.jpg)

ACL injuries often occur with other injuries. For example, an ACL tear often
occurs along with tears to the MCL and the shock-absorbing cartilage in the
knee (meniscus).

Most ACL tears occur in the middle of the ligament, or the ligament is pulled
off the thigh bone. These injuries form a gap between the torn edges, and do
not heal on their own.

## Symptoms

Early symptoms:

    * A "popping" sound at the time of injury
    * Knee swelling within 6 hours of injury
    * Pain, especially when you try to put weight on the injured leg
    * Difficulty in continuing with your sport

Those who have only a mild injury may notice that the knee feels unstable or
seems to "give way" when using it.

## First Aid

See your health care provider if you think you have an ACL injury. Do not play
sports or other activities until you have seen a provider and have been
treated.

Your provider may send you for an MRI of the knee. This can confirm the
diagnosis. It may also show other knee injuries.

First aid for an ACL injury may include:

    * Raising your leg above the level of the heart
    * Putting ice on the knee
    * Pain relievers, such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (such as ibuprofen) 

You also may need:

    * Crutches to walk until the swelling and pain get better
    * Brace to give your knee some stability
    * Physical therapy to help improve joint motion and leg strength
    * Surgery to rebuild the ACL 

Some people can live and function normally with a torn ACL. However, most
people complain that their knee is unstable and may "give out" with physical
activity. Unrepaired ACL tears can lead to further knee damage. You are also
less likely to return to the same level of sports without the ACL.

## DO NOT

    * Do NOT move your knee if you have had a serious injury.
    * Use a splint to keep the knee straight until you see a doctor.
    * Do NOT return to play or other activities until you have been treated.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider right away if you have a serious knee injury.

Get immediate medical attention if the foot is cool and blue after a knee
injury. This means that the knee joint may be dislocated, and blood vessels to
the foot may be injured. This is a medical emergency.

## Prevention

Use proper techniques when playing sports or exercising. Some college sports
programs teach athletes how to reduce stress placed on the ACL. This involves
a series of warm up exercises and jumping drills.

The use of knee braces during vigorous athletic activity (such as football) is
controversial. It has not been shown to reduce the number of knee injuries,
but not specifically ACL injuries.

## Alternative Names

Cruciate ligament injury - anterior; ACL tear; Knee injury - anterior cruciate
ligament (ACL)

## Patient Instructions

    * ACL reconstruction - discharge 

## Images

    * ![Knee arthroscopy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23176t.jpg)Knee arthroscopy
    * ![ACL degrees](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18002t.jpg)ACL degrees
    * ![ACL injury](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18003t.jpg)ACL injury
    * ![Normal knee anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8716t.jpg)Normal knee anatomy
    * ![Anterior cruciate ligament \(ACL\) injury](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8717t.jpg)Anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injury
    * ![Anterior cruciate ligament repair - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/21744t.jpg)Anterior cruciate ligament repair - Series

## References

Griffin L. The female athlete. In: Miller MD, Thompson SR, eds. _DeLee and
Drez's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine: Principles and Practice_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 32.

Miller RH, Azar FM. Knee injuries. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale ST, eds.
_Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 45.

Niska JA, Petrigliano FA, McAllister DR. Anterior cruciate ligament injuries
(including revision). In: Miller MD, Thompson SR, eds. _DeLee and Drez's
Orthopaedic Sports Medicine: Principles and Practice_. 4th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 98.

Nyland J, Mattocks A, Kibbe S, Kalloub A, Greene JW, Caborn DN. Anterior
cruciate ligament reconstruction, rehabilitation, and return to play: 2015
update. _Open Access J Sports Med_. 2016;7:21-32. PMID: 26955296
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26955296.

## Review Date 4/9/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Knee Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KneeInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Knee
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

