Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007209.htm    
                                Description: Meniscal allograft transplantation is surgery in which a meniscus -- a c-shaped cartilage in the knee -- is placed into your knee. The new meniscus is taken from a person who has died (cadaver) and donated    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Meniscal allograft transplantation

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007209.htm

# Meniscal allograft transplantation

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Meniscal allograft transplantation is surgery in which a meniscus -- a
c-shaped cartilage in the knee -- is placed into your knee. The new meniscus
is taken from a person who has died (cadaver) and donated their tissue.

## Description

If your doctor finds that you are a good candidate for a meniscus transplant,
x-rays or an MRI of your knee is usually taken to find a meniscus that will
fit your knee. The donated meniscus is tested in the lab for any diseases and
infection.

Other surgeries, such as ligament or cartilage repairs, may be done at the
time of the meniscus transplant or with a separate surgery.

You will likely receive general anesthesia before this surgery. This means you
will be asleep and unable to feel pain. Or, you may have regional anesthesia.
Your leg and knee area will be numbed so that you do not feel any pain. If you
receive regional anesthesia, you will also be given medicine to make you very
sleepy during the operation.

During the surgery:

    * The meniscus transplant is usually performed using knee arthroscopy. The surgeon makes two or three small cuts around your knee. Salt water (saline) will be pumped into your knee to inflate the knee.
    * The arthroscope is inserted into your knee through a small incision. The scope is connected to a video monitor in the operating room.
    * The surgeon inspects the cartilage and ligaments of your knee, confirming that a meniscus transplant is appropriate, and that you don't have severe arthritis of the knee.
    * The new meniscus is prepared to fit your knee correctly.
    * If any tissue is left from your old meniscus, it is removed.
    * The new meniscus is inserted into your knee and sutured (sewn) in place. Screws or other devices may be used to hold the meniscus in place.

After the surgery is finished, the incisions are closed. A dressing is placed
over the wound. During arthroscopy, most surgeons take pictures of the
procedure from the video monitor to show you what was found and what was done.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Two cartilage rings are in the center of each knee. One is on the inside
(medial meniscus) and one is on the outside (lateral meniscus). When a
meniscus is torn, it is commonly removed by knee arthroscopy. Some people can
still have pain after the meniscus is removed.

A meniscus transplant places a new meniscus in the knee where the meniscus is
missing. This procedure is only done when meniscus tears are so severe that
all or nearly all of the meniscus cartilage is torn or has to be removed. The
new meniscus can help with knee pain and possibly prevent future arthritis.

Meniscus allograft transplantation may be recommended for knee problems such
as:

    * Development of early arthritis
    * Inability to play sports or other activities
    * Knee pain
    * Knee that gives way
    * Unstable knee
    * Persistent knee swelling

## Risks

Risks for anesthesia and surgery in general are:

    * Allergic reactions to medicines
    * Problems breathing
    * Bleeding, blood clots, infection 

Risks for meniscal transplant surgery are:

    * Nerve damage
    * Stiffness of the knee
    * Failure of the surgery to relieve symptoms
    * Failure of the meniscus to heal
    * Tear of the new meniscus
    * Disease from the transplanted meniscus
    * Pain in the knee
    * Weakness of the knee 

## Before the Procedure

Tell your health care provider what medicines you are taking. This includes
medicines, supplements, or herbs you bought without a prescription.

During the 2 weeks before your surgery:

    * You may be asked to temporarily stop taking blood thinners. These include aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), naproxen (Naprosyn, Aleve), and other medicines.
    * Ask your provider which medicines you should still take on the day of your surgery.
    * If you have diabetes, heart disease, or other medical conditions, your surgeon will ask you to see your doctor who treats you for these conditions.
    * Tell your provider if you have been drinking a lot of alcohol, more than 1 or 2 drinks a day.
    * If you smoke, try to stop. Ask your provider for help. Smoking can slow wound and bone healing.
    * Tell your surgeon if you develop a cold, flu, fever, herpes breakout, or other illness before your surgery. The procedure may need to be postponed.

On the day of surgery:

    * Follow instructions on when to stop eating and drinking before the surgery.
    * Take the medicines your provider told you to take with a small sip of water.
    * Follow instructions on when to arrive at the hospital. Be sure to arrive on time.

## After the Procedure

Follow any discharge and self-care instructions you are given.

After the surgery, you will probably wear a knee brace for the first 6 weeks.
You will need crutches for 6 weeks to prevent putting full weight on your
knee. You will likely be able to move the knee right after surgery. Doing so
helps prevent stiffness. Pain is usually managed with medicines.

Physical therapy can help you regain the motion and strength of your knee.
Therapy lasts for between 4 and 6 months.

How soon you can return to work depends on your job. It can take from a few
weeks to a few months. It can take 6 months to a year to fully return to
activities and sports.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Meniscus allograft transplantation is a difficult surgery, and the recovery is
hard. But for people who are missing the meniscus and have pain, it can be
very successful. Most people have less knee pain after this procedure.

## Alternative Names

Meniscus transplant; Surgery - knee - meniscus transplant; Surgery - knee -
cartilage; Arthroscopy - knee - meniscus transplant

## Patient Instructions

    * Knee arthroscopy - discharge 

## References

Phillips BB, Mihalko MJ. Arthroscopy of the lower extremity. In: Azar FM,
Beaty JH, Canale ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 51.

Ruzbarsky JJ, Maak TG, Rodeo SA. Meniscal injuries. In: Miller MD, Thompson
SR, eds. _DeLee, Drez & Miller's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine: Principles and
Practice_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 94.

## Review Date 4/21/2019

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cartilage
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CartilageDisorders_thumb.jpg)Cartilage
Disorders _Read more_

![Knee Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KneeInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Knee
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

