Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000199.htm    
                                Description: You had surgery to treat problems in your knee. This article discusses how to take care of yourself when you go home from the hospital.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Knee arthroscopy - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000199.htm

# Knee arthroscopy - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You had surgery to treat problems in your knee. This article discusses how to
take care of yourself when you go home from the hospital.

## When You're in the Hospital

You had surgery to treat problems in your knee (knee arthroscopy). You may
have been checked for:

    * Torn meniscus. Meniscus is cartilage that cushions the space between the bones in the knee. Surgery is done to repair or remove it.
    * Torn or damaged anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) or posterior cruciate ligament (PCL).
    * Inflamed or damaged lining of the joint. This lining is called the synovium.
    * Misalignment of the kneecap (patella). Misalignment puts the kneecap out of position.
    * Small pieces of broken cartilage in the knee joint.
    * Baker's cyst. This is a swelling behind the knee that is filled with fluid. Sometimes this occurs when there is inflammation (soreness and pain) from other causes, like arthritis. The cyst can be removed during this surgery.
    * Some fractures of the bones of the knee.

## What to Expect at Home

You may be able to put weight on your knee in the first week after having this
surgery if your health care provider says it is OK. Also, ask your provider if
there are activities you should limit. Most people can return to their normal
activities within the first month. You may need to be on crutches for a while
depending on your procedure.

If you have a more complicated knee arthroscopy procedure, you may not be able
to walk for several weeks. You may also need to use crutches or a knee brace.
Full recovery may take several months to a year.

## Pain

Pain is normal after knee arthroscopy. It should get better over time.

You will get a prescription for pain medicine. Get it filled when you go home
so that you have it when you need it. Take your pain medicine as soon as pain
starts. This will prevent it from getting too bad.

You may have received a nerve block, so you don't feel pain during and after
surgery. Make sure you take your pain medicine. The nerve block will wear off,
and pain can return very quickly.

Taking ibuprofen or another anti-inflammatory medicine may also help. Ask your
provider what other medicines are safe to take with your pain medicine.

DO NOT drive if you are taking narcotic pain medicine. This medicine may make
you too sleepy to drive safely.

## Activity

Your provider will ask you to rest when you first go home. Keep your leg
propped up on 1 or 2 pillows. Place the pillows under your foot or calf
muscle. This helps control swelling in your knee.

For most procedures, you may start to put weight on your leg soon after
surgery, unless your provider tells you not to. You should:

    * Start slowly by walking around the house. You may need to use crutches at first to help you keep from putting too much weight on your knee.
    * Try not to stand for long periods.
    * Do any exercises your provider taught you.
    * DO NOT jog, swim, do aerobics, or ride a bicycle until your doctor tells you it is ok. 

Ask your provider when you can return to work or drive again.

## Wound Care

You will have a dressing and an ace bandage around your knee when you go home.
DO NOT remove these until your provider says it is OK. Keep the dressing and
bandage clean and dry.

Place an ice pack on your knee 4 to 6 times a day for the first 2 or 3 days.
Be careful not to get the dressing wet. DO NOT use a heating pad.

Keep the ace bandage on until your provider tells you it is OK to remove it.

    * If you need to change your dressing for any reason, put the ace bandage back on over the new dressing.
    * Wrap the ace bandage loosely around your knee. Start from the calf and wrap it around your leg and knee.
    * DO NOT wrap it too tightly. 

When you shower, wrap your leg in plastic to keep it from getting wet until
your stitches or tape have been removed. Please check with your surgeon to see
whether that is OK. After that, you may get the incisions wet when you shower.
Be sure to dry the area well.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

    * Blood is soaking through your dressing, and the bleeding does not stop when you put pressure on the area.
    * Pain does not go away after you take pain medicine or is getting worse with time.
    * You have swelling or pain in your calf muscle.
    * Your foot or toes look darker than normal or are cool to the touch.
    * You have redness, pain, swelling, or yellowish discharge from your incisions.
    * You have a temperature higher than 101Â°F (38.3Â°C). 

## Alternative Names

Knee scope - arthroscopic lateral retinacular release - discharge; Synovectomy
- discharge; Patellar debridement - discharge; Meniscus repair - discharge;
Lateral release - discharge; Collateral ligament repair - discharge; Knee
surgery - discharge

## References

Griffin JW, Hart JA, Thompson SR, Miller MD. Basics of knee arthroscopy. In:
Miller MD, Thompson SR, eds. _DeLee and Drez's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine_.
4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 94.

Phillips BB, Mihalko MJ. Arthroscopy of the lower extremity. In: Azar FM,
Beaty JH, Canale ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 51.

## Read More

    * Baker cyst
    * Knee arthroscopy
    * Knee microfracture surgery
    * Knee pain
    * Meniscal allograft transplantation 

## Patient Instructions

    * ACL reconstruction - discharge 
    * Getting your home ready - knee or hip surgery
    * Surgical wound care - open

## Review Date 11/5/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Knee Injuries and Disorders

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

