Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000582.htm    
                                Description: A broken kneecap occurs when the small round bone (patella) that sits over the front of your knee joint breaks.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Broken kneecap - aftercare

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000582.htm

# Broken kneecap - aftercare

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A broken kneecap occurs when the small round bone (patella) that sits over the
front of your knee joint breaks.

Sometimes when a broken kneecap occurs, the patellar or quadriceps tendon can
also tear. The patella and quadriceps tendon connects the big muscle in the
front of your thigh to your knee joint.

## What to Expect

If you do not need surgery:

    * You may have only to limit, not stop, your activity if you have a very minor fracture.
    * More likely, your knee will be placed in a cast or removable brace for 4 to 6 weeks, and you will have to limit your activity. 

Your health care provider will also treat any skin wounds you may have from
your knee injury.

If you have a severe fracture, or if your tendon is torn, you may need surgery
to repair or replace your kneecap.

## Symptom Relief

Sit with your knee raised at least 4 times a day. This will help reduce
swelling and muscle atrophy.

Ice your knee. Make an ice pack by putting ice cubes in a plastic bag and
wrapping a cloth around it.

    * For the first day of injury, apply the ice pack every hour for 10 to 15 minutes.
    * After the first day, ice the area every 3 to 4 hours for 2 or 3 days or until the pain goes away. 

Pain medicines such as acetaminophen, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin, and others),
or naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn, and others) may help ease pain and swelling.

    * Be sure to take these only as directed. Carefully read the warnings on the label before you take them.
    * Talk with your provider before using these medicines if you have heart disease, high blood pressure, kidney disease, liver disease, or have had stomach ulcers or internal bleeding in the past. 

## Activity

If you have a removable splint, you will need to wear it at all times, except
as instructed by your provider.

    * Your provider may ask you not to place any weight on your injured leg for up to 1 week or longer. Please check with your provider to find out how long you need to keep weight off your injured leg.
    * After that, you can begin placing weight on your leg, as long as it is not painful. You will need to use the splint on the knee. You may also need to use crutches or a cane for balance.
    * When you are wearing your splint or brace, you can begin straight-leg raises and ankle range-of-motion exercises. 

After your splint or brace is removed, you will begin:

    * Knee range-of-motion exercises
    * Exercises to strengthen the muscles around your knee 

You may be able to return to work:

    * A week after your injury if your job involves mostly sitting
    * At least 12 weeks after your splint or cast is removed, if your job involves squatting or climbing 

Return to sports activities after your provider says it is ok. This most often
takes from 2 to 6 months.

    * Begin with walking or freestyle swimming.
    * Add sports that require jumping or making sharp cuts last.
    * DO NOT do any sport or activity that increases pain. 

## Wound Care

If you have a bandage on your knee, keep it clean. Change it if it gets dirty.
Use soap and water to keep your wound clean when your provider says you can.

If you have stitches (sutures), they will be removed at around 2 weeks. DO NOT
take baths, swim, or soak your knee in any way until your provider says it is
ok.

## Follow-up Care

You will need to see your provider every 2 to 3 weeks during your recovery.
Your provider will check to see how your fracture is healing.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your health care provider if you have:

    * Increased swelling
    * Severe or increased pain
    * Changes in skin color around or below your knee
    * Signs of wound infection, such as redness, swelling, drainage that smells bad, or a fever 

## Alternative Names

Patella fracture

## References

Eiff MP, Hatch R. Patellar, tibial, and fibular fractures. In: Eiff MP, Hatch
R, eds. _Fracture Management for Primary Care, Updated Edition_. 3rd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2018:chap 12.

Safran MR, Zachazewski J, Stone DA. Patellar fracture. In: Safran MR,
Zachazewski J, Stone DA eds. _Instructions for Sports Medicine Patients_. 2nd
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2012:755-760.

## Review Date 11/5/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Knee Injuries and Disorders

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

