Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000585.htm    
                                Description: Your kneecap (patella) sits over the front of your knee joint. As you bend or straighten your knee, the underside of your kneecap glides over a groove in the bones that make up your knee joint.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Kneecap dislocation - aftercare

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000585.htm

# Kneecap dislocation - aftercare

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Your kneecap (patella) sits over the front of your knee joint. As you bend or
straighten your knee, the underside of your kneecap glides over a groove in
the bones that make up your knee joint.

    * A kneecap that slides out of the groove partway is called a subluxation.
    * A kneecap that moves fully outside the groove is called a dislocation. 

## More About Your Injury

A kneecap can be knocked out of the groove when the knee is hit from the side.

A kneecap can also slide out of the groove during normal movement or when
there is twisting motion or a sudden turn.

Kneecap subluxation or dislocation may occur more than once. The first few
times it happens will be painful, and you will be unable to walk.

If subluxations continue to occur and are not treated, you may feel less pain
when they happen. However, there may be more damage to your knee joint each
time it happens.

## What to Expect

You may have had a knee x-ray or an MRI to make sure your kneecap bone did not
break and there was no damage to the cartilage or tendons (other tissues in
your knee joint).

If tests show that you do not have damage:

    * Your knee may be placed in a brace, splint, or cast for several weeks.
    * You may need to use crutches at first so that you do not put too much weight on your knee.
    * You will need to follow up with your primary care provider or a bone doctor (orthopedist).
    * You may need physical therapy to work on strengthening and conditioning.
    * Most people recover fully within 6 to 8 weeks. 

If your kneecap is damaged or unstable, you may need surgery to repair or
stabilize it. Your health care provider will most often refer you to an
orthopaedic surgeon.

## Symptom Relief

Sit with your knee raised at least 4 times a day. This will help reduce
swelling.

Ice your knee. Make an ice pack by putting ice cubes in a plastic bag and
wrapping a cloth around it.

    * For the first day of injury, apply the ice pack every hour for 10 to 15 minutes.
    * After the first day, ice the area every 3Â to 4 hours for 2 or 3 days or until the pain goes away. 

Pain medicines such as acetaminophen, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin, and others),
or naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn, and others) may help ease pain and swelling.

    * Be sure to take these only as directed. Carefully read the warnings on the label before you take them.
    * Talk with your provider before using these medicines if you have heart disease, high blood pressure, kidney disease, liver disease, or have had stomach ulcers or internal bleeding in the past. 

## Activity

You will need to change your activity while you are wearing a splint or brace.
Your provider will advise you about:

    * How much weight you can place on your knee
    * When you can remove the splint or brace
    * Bicycling instead of running while you heal, especially if your usual activity is running 

Many exercises can help stretch and strengthen the muscles around your knee,
thigh, and hip. Your provider may show these to you or may have you work with
a physical therapist to learn them.

Before returning to sports or strenuous activity, your injured leg should be
as strong as your uninjured leg. You should also be able to:

    * Run and jump on your injured leg without pain
    * Fully straighten and bend your injured knee without pain
    * Jog and sprint straight ahead without limping or feeling pain
    * Be able to do 45- and 90-degree cuts when running 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

    * Your knee feels unstable.
    * Pain or swelling returns after having gone away.
    * Your injury does not seem to be getting better with time.
    * You have pain when your knee catches and locks. 

## Alternative Names

Patellar subluxation - aftercare; Patellofemoral subluxation - aftercare;
Kneecap subluxation - aftercare

## References

Miller RH, Azar FM. Knee injuries. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale ST, eds.
_Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Mosby; 2017:chap 45.

Tan EW, Cosgarea AJ. Patellar instability. In: Miller MD, Thompson SR, eds.
_DeLee and Drez's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 104.

## Review Date 11/5/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Dislocations
    * Knee Injuries and Disorders

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

