Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003187.htm    
                                Description: Knee pain is a common symptom in people of all ages. It may start suddenly, often after an injury or exercise. Knee pain also may begin as a mild discomfort, then slowly get worse.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Knee pain

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003187.htm

# Knee pain

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Knee pain is a common symptom in people of all ages. It may start suddenly,
often after an injury or exercise. Knee pain also may begin as a mild
discomfort, then slowly get worse.

## Causes

Knee pain can have different causes. Being overweight puts you at greater risk
for knee problems. Overusing your knee can trigger knee problems that cause
pain. If you have a history of arthritis, it could also cause knee pain.

![Knee pain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19506.jpg)

Here are some common causes of knee pain:

MEDICAL CONDITIONS

    * Arthritis. Including rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis, lupus, and gout.
    * Baker cyst. A fluid-filled swelling behind the knee that may occur with swelling (inflammation) from other causes, like arthritis.
    * Cancers that either spread to your bones or begin in the bones.
    * Osgood-Schlatter disease.
    * Infection in the bones of the knee.
    * Infection in the knee joint. 

INJURIES AND OVERUSE

    * Bursitis. Inflammation from repeated pressure on the knee, such as kneeling for a long time, overuse, or injury.
    * Dislocation of the kneecap.
    * Fracture of the kneecap or other bones.
    * Iliotibial band syndrome. Injury to the thick band that runs from your hip to the outside of your knee.
    * Pain in the front of your knee around the kneecap.
    * Torn ligament. An anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injury, or medial collateral ligament (MCL) injury may cause bleeding into your knee, swelling, or an unstable knee.
    * Torn cartilage (a meniscus tear). Pain felt on the inside or outside of the knee joint.
    * Strain or sprain. Minor injuries to the ligaments caused by sudden or unnatural twisting. 

## Home Care

Simple causes of knee pain often clear up on their own while you take steps to
manage your symptoms. If knee pain is caused by an accident or injury, you
should contact your health care provider.

If your knee pain has just started and is not severe, you can:

    * Rest and avoid activities that cause pain. Avoid putting weight on your knee.
    * Apply ice. First, apply it every hour for up to 15 minutes. After the first day, apply it at least 4 times per day. Cover your knee with a towel before applying ice. DO NOT fall asleep while using ice. You can leave it on too long and get frostbite.
    * Keep your knee raised as much as possible to bring down any swelling.
    * Wear an elastic bandage or elastic sleeve, which you can buy at most pharmacies. This may reduce swelling and provide support.
    * Take ibuprofen (Motrin) or naproxyn (Aleve) for pain and swelling. Acetaminophen (Tylenol) can help relieve pain, but not swelling. Talk to your provider before taking these medicines if you have medical problems, or if you have taken them for more than a day or two.
    * Sleep with a pillow underneath or between your knees. 

Follow these general tips to help relieve and prevent knee pain:

    * Always warm up before exercising and cool down after exercising. Stretch the muscles in the front of your thigh (quadriceps) and in the back of your thigh (hamstrings).
    * Avoid running down hills -- walk down instead.
    * Bicycle, or better yet, swim instead of run.
    * Reduce the amount of exercise you do.
    * Run on a smooth, soft surface, such as a track, instead of on cement or pavement.
    * Lose weight if you are overweight. Every pound (0.5 kilogram) that you are overweight puts about 5 extra pounds (2.25 kilograms) of pressure on your kneecap when you go up and down stairs. Ask your provider for help losing weight.
    * If you have flat feet, try special shoe inserts and arch supports (orthotics).
    * Make sure your running shoes are well made, fit well, and have good cushioning. 

Further steps for you to take may depend on the cause of your knee pain.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You cannot bear weight on your knee.
    * You have severe pain, even when not bearing weight.
    * Your knee buckles, clicks, or locks.
    * Your knee is deformed or mis-shapen.
    * You cannot flex your knee or have trouble straightening it all the way out.
    * You have a fever, redness or warmth around the knee, or a lot of swelling.
    * You have pain, swelling, numbness, tingling, or bluish discoloration in the calf below the sore knee.
    * You still have pain after 3 days of home treatment.Â 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will perform a physical exam, and look at your knees, hips,
legs, and other joints.

Your provider may do the following tests:

    * X-ray of the knee
    * MRI of the knee if a ligament or meniscus tear could be the cause
    * CT scan of the knee
    * Joint fluid culture (fluid taken from the knee and examined under a microscope)

Your provider may inject a steroid into your knee to reduce pain and
inflammation.

You may need to learn stretching and strengthening exercises. You also may
need to see a podiatrist to be fitted for orthotics.

In some cases, you may need surgery.

## Alternative Names

Pain - knee

## Patient Instructions

    * ACL reconstruction - discharge 
    * Hip or knee replacement - after - what to ask your doctor 
    * Hip or knee replacement - before - what to ask your doctor 
    * Knee arthroscopy - discharge 

## Images

    * ![Leg pain \(Osgood-Schlatter\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17240t.jpg)Leg pain (Osgood-Schlatter)
    * ![Lower leg muscles](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17238t.jpg)Lower leg muscles
    * ![Knee pain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19506t.jpg)Knee pain
    * ![Baker cyst](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19646t.jpg)Baker cyst
    * ![Tendinitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19699t.jpg)Tendinitis

## References

Huddleston JI, Goodman S. Hip and knee pain. In: Firestein GS, Budd RC,
Gabriel SE, McInnes IB, O'Dell JR, eds. _Kelley and Firestein's Textbook of
Rheumatology_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 48.

McCoy BW, Hussain WM, Griesser MJ, Parker RD. Patellofemoral pain. In: Miller
MD, Thompson SR, eds. _DeLee and Drez's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 105.

Niska JA, Petrigliano FA, McAllister DR. Anterior cruciate ligament injuries
(including revision). In: Miller MD, Thompson SR, eds. _DeLee and Drez's
Orthopaedic Sports Medicine_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 98.

## Review Date 11/5/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Knee Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KneeInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Knee
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

