Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007208.htm    
                                Description: ACL reconstruction is surgery to reconstruct the ligament in the center of your knee. The anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) connects your shin bone (tibia) to your thigh bone (femur). A tear of this ligament    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

ACL reconstruction

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007208.htm

# ACL reconstruction

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

ACL reconstruction is surgery to reconstruct the ligament in the center of
your knee. The anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) connects your shin bone
(tibia) to your thigh bone (femur). A tear of this ligament can cause your
knee to give way during physical activity, most often during side-step or
crossover movements.

## Description

Most people have general anesthesia right before surgery. This means you will
be asleep and pain-free. Other kinds of anesthesia, like regional anesthesia
or a block, may also be used for this surgery.

The tissue to replace your damaged ACL will come from your own body or from a
donor. A donor is a person who has died and chose to give all or part of their
body to help others.

    * Tissue taken from your own body is called an autograft. The two most common places to take tissue from are the knee cap tendon or the hamstring tendon. Your hamstring are the muscles behind your knee.
    * Tissue taken from a donor is called an allograft. 

The procedure is usually performed with the help of knee arthroscopy. With
arthroscopy, a tiny camera is inserted into the knee through a small surgical
cut. The camera is connected to a video monitor in the operating room. Your
surgeon will use the camera to check the ligaments and other tissues of your
knee.

Your surgeon will make other small cuts around your knee and insert other
medical instruments. Your surgeon will fix any other damage found, and then
will replace your ACL by following these steps:

    * The torn ligament will be removed with a shaver or other instruments.
    * If your own tissue is being used to make your new ACL, your surgeon will make a larger cut. Then, the autograft will be removed through this cut.
    * Your surgeon will make tunnels in your bone to bring the new tissue through. This new tissue will be put at the same place as your old ACL.
    * Your surgeon will attach the new ligament to the bone with screws or other devices to hold it in place. As it heals, the bone tunnels fill in. This holds the new ligament in place. 

At the end of the surgery, your surgeon will close your cuts with sutures
(stitches) and cover the area with a dressing. You may be able to view
pictures after the procedure of what the doctor saw and what was done during
the surgery.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

If you do not have your ACL reconstructed, your knee may continue to be
unstable. This increases the chance you may have a meniscus tear. ACL
reconstruction may be used for these knee problems:

    * Knee that gives way or feels unstable during daily activities
    * Knee pain
    * Inability to return to sports or other activities
    * When other ligaments are also injured
    * When your meniscus is torn 

Before surgery, talk to your health care provider about the time and effort
you will need to recover. You will need to follow a rehabilitation program for
4 to 6 months. Your ability to return to full activity will depend on how well
you follow the program.

## Risks

The risks from any anesthesia are:

    * Allergic reactions to medicines
    * Breathing problems

The risks from any surgery are:

    * Bleeding
    * Infection 

Other risks from this surgery may include:

    * Blood clot in the leg
    * Failure of the ligament to heal
    * Failure of the surgery to relieve symptoms
    * Injury to a nearby blood vessel
    * Pain in the knee
    * Stiffness of the knee or lost range of motion
    * Weakness of the knee 

## Before the Procedure

Always tell your provider what drugs you are taking, even drugs, supplements,
or herbs you bought without a prescription.

During the 2 weeks before your surgery:

    * You may be asked to stop taking drugs that make it harder for your blood to clot. These include aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), naproxen (Naprosyn, Aleve), and other drugs.
    * Ask your provider which drugs you should still take on the day of your surgery.
    * If you have diabetes, heart disease, or other medical conditions, your surgeon will ask you to see the provider who treats you for these conditions.
    * Tell your provider if you have been drinking a lot of alcohol, more than 1 or 2 drinks a day.
    * If you smoke, try to stop. Smoking can slow down wound and bone healing. Ask your providers for help if you need it.
    * Always let your provider know about any cold, flu, fever, herpes breakout, or other illnesses you may have before your surgery. 

On the day of your surgery:

    * You will often be asked not to drink or eat anything for 6 to 12 hours before the procedure.
    * Take your drugs you have been told to take with a small sip of water.
    * You will be told when to arrive at the hospital. 

## After the Procedure

Most people can go home the day of your surgery. You may have to wear a knee
brace for the first 1 to 4 weeks. You also may need crutches for 1 to 4 weeks.
Most people are allowed to move their knee right after surgery. This may help
prevent stiffness. You may need medicine for your pain.

Physical therapy can help many people regain motion and strength in their
knee. Therapy can last up to 4 to 6 months.

How soon you return to work will depend on the kind of work you do. It can be
from a few days to a few months. A full return to activities and sports will
often take 4 to 6 months. Sports that involve quick changes in direction, such
as soccer, basketball, and football, may require up to 9 to 12 months of
rehabilitation.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most people will have a stable knee that does not give way after ACL
reconstruction. Better surgical methods and rehabilitation have led to:

    * Less pain and stiffness after surgery.
    * Fewer complications with the surgery itself.
    * Faster recovery time.

## Alternative Names

Anterior cruciate ligament repair; Knee surgery - ACL; Knee arthroscopy - ACL

## Patient Instructions

    * ACL reconstruction - discharge 
    * Getting your home ready - knee or hip surgery
    * Surgical wound care - open

## References

Brotzman SB. Anterior cruciate ligament injuries. In: Giangarra CE, Manske RC,
eds. _Clinical Orthopaedic Rehabilitation: A Team Approach_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 47.

Cheung EC, McAllister DR, Petrigliano FA. Anterior cruciate ligament injuries.
In: Miller MD, Thompson SR, eds. _DeLee Drez & Miller's Orthopaedic Sports
Medicine_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2020:chap 98.

Noyes FR, Barber-Westin SD. Anterior cruciate ligament primary reconstruction:
diagnosis, operative techniques, and clinical outcomes. In: Noyes FR, Barber-
Westin SD, eds. _Noyes' Knee Disorders Surgery, Rehabilitation, Clinical
Outcomes_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 7.

Phillips BB, Mihalko MJ. Arthroscopy of the lower extremity. In: Azar FM,
Beaty JH, Canale ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 51.

## Review Date 4/21/2019

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Knee Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KneeInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Knee
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![Sports
injuries](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SportsInjuries_thumb.jpg)Sports
Injuries _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

