Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001258.htm    
                                Description: Osgood-Schlatter disease is a painful swelling of the bump on the upper part of the shinbone, just below the knee. This bump is called the anterior tibial tubercle.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Osgood-Schlatter disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001258.htm

# Osgood-Schlatter disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Osgood-Schlatter disease is a painful swelling of the bump on the upper part
of the shinbone, just below the knee. This bump is called the anterior tibial
tubercle.

## Causes

Osgood-Schlatter disease is thought to be caused by small injuries to the knee
area from overuse before the knee is finished growing.

The quadriceps muscle is a large, strong muscle on the front part of the upper
leg. When this muscle squeezes (contracts), it straightens the knee. The
quadriceps muscle is an important muscle for running, jumping, and climbing.

When the quadriceps muscle is used a lot in sports activities during a child's
growth spurt, this area becomes irritated or swollen and causes pain.

It is common in adolescents who play soccer, basketball, and volleyball, and
who participate in gymnastics. Osgood-Schlatter disease affects more boys than
girls.

## Symptoms

The main symptom is painful swelling over a bump on the lower leg bone
(shinbone). Symptoms occur on one or both legs.

You may have leg pain or knee pain, which gets worse with running, jumping,
and climbing stairs.

The area is tender to pressure, and swelling ranges from mild to very severe.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider can tell if you have this condition by doing a
physical exam.

A bone x-ray may be normal, or it may show swelling or damage to the tibial
tubercle. This is a bony bump below the knee. X-rays are rarely used unless
the provider wants to rule out other causes of the pain.

## Treatment

Osgood-Schlatter disease will almost always go away on its own once the child
stops growing.

Treatment includes:

    * Resting the knee and decreasing activity when symptoms develop
    * Putting ice over the painful area 2 to 4 times a day, and after activities
    * Taking Ibuprofen or other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), or acetaminophen (Tylenol) 

In many cases, the condition will get better using these methods.

Adolescents may play sports if the activity does not cause too much pain.
However, symptoms will get better faster when activity is limited. Sometimes,
a child will need to take a break from most or all sports for 2 or more
months.

Rarely, a cast or brace may be used to support the leg until it heals if
symptoms do not go away. This most often takes 6 to 8 weeks. Crutches may be
used for walking to keep weight off the painful leg.

Surgery may be needed in rare cases.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most cases get better on their own after a few weeks or months. Most cases go
away once the child finished growing.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if your child has knee or leg pain, or if pain does not get
better with treatment.

## Prevention

The small injuries that may cause this disorder often go unnoticed, so
prevention may not be possible. Regular stretching, both before and after
exercise and athletics, can help prevent injury.

## Alternative Names

Osteochondrosis; Knee pain - Osgood-Schlatter

## Images

    * ![Leg pain \(Osgood-Schlatter\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17240t.jpg)Leg pain (Osgood-Schlatter)

## References

Canale ST. Osteochondrosis or epiphysitis and other miscellaneous affections.
In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_.
13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 32.

Milewski MD, Sweet SJ, Nissen CW, Prokop TK. Knee injuries in skeletally
immature athletes. In: Miller MD, Thompson SR, eds. _DeLee and Drez's
Orthopaedic Sports Medicine_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 135.

Sarkissian EJ, Lawrence JTR. The knee. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme
JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 677.

## Review Date 10/11/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Knee Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KneeInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Knee
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![Sports
injuries](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SportsInjuries_thumb.jpg)Sports
Injuries _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

