Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000671.htm    
                                Description: A ligament is a band of tissue that connects a bone to another bone. The collateral ligaments of the knee are located on the outside part of your knee joint. They help connect the bones of your upper and    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Collateral ligament (CL) injury - aftercare

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000671.htm

# Collateral ligament (CL) injury - aftercare

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A ligament is a band of tissue that connects a bone to another bone. The
collateral ligaments of the knee are located on the outside part of your knee
joint. They help connect the bones of your upper and lower leg, around your
knee joint.

    * The lateral collateral ligament (LCL) runs on the outer side of your knee.
    * The medial collateral ligament (MCL) runs along the inside of your knee. 

A collateral ligament injury occurs when the ligaments are stretched or torn.
A partial tear occurs when only part of the ligament is torn. A complete tear
occurs when the entire ligament is torn into two pieces.

## More About Your Injury

The collateral ligaments help keep your knee stable. They help keep your leg
bones in place and keep your knee from moving too far sideways.

A collateral ligament injury can occur if you get hit very hard on the inside
or outside of your knee, or when you have a twisting injury.

Skiers and people who play basketball, football, or soccer are more likely to
have this type of injury.

## What to Expect

With a collateral ligament injury, you may notice:

    * A loud pop when the injury occurs
    * Your knee is unstable and can shift side to side as if it "gives way"
    * Locking or catching of the knee with movement
    * Knee swelling
    * Knee pain along the inside or outside of your knee 
![Knee pain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19506.jpg)

After examining your knee, the doctor may order these imaging tests:

    * An MRI of the knee. An MRI machine takes special pictures of the tissues inside your knee. The pictures will show whether these tissues have been stretched or torn.
    * X-rays to check for damage to the bones in your knee. 

If you have a collateral ligament injury, you may need:

    * Crutches to walk until the swelling and pain get better
    * A brace to support and stabilize your knee
    * Physical therapy to help improve joint motion and leg strength 

Most people do not need surgery for an MCL injury. However, you may need
surgery if your LCL is injured or if your injuries are severe and involve
other ligaments in your knee.

## Self-care at Home

Follow R.I.C.E. to help reduce pain and swelling:

    *  **Rest** your leg. Avoid putting weight on it.
    *  **Ice** your knee for 20 minutes at a time, 3 to 4 times a day.
    *  **Compress** the area by wrapping it with an elastic bandage or compression wrap.
    *  **Elevate** your leg by raising it above the level of your heart. 

You can use ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), or naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn) to reduce
pain and swelling. Acetaminophen (Tylenol) helps with pain, but not swelling.
You can buy these pain medicines at the store.

    * Talk with your doctor before using these medicines if you have heart disease, high blood pressure, kidney disease, or have had stomach ulcers or internal bleeding in the past.
    * DO NOT take more than the amount recommended on the bottle or by your doctor. 

## Activity

You should not put all of your weight on your leg if it hurts, or if your
doctor tells you not to. Rest and self-care may be enough to allow the tear to
heal. You should use crutches to protect the injured ligament.

You may need to work with a physical therapist (PT) to regain knee and leg
strength. The PT will teach you exercises to strengthen the muscles,
ligaments, and tendons around your knee.

As your knee heals, you can return to normal activities and maybe play sports
again.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your doctor if:

    * You have increased swelling or pain
    * Self-care does not seem to help
    * You lose feeling in your foot
    * Your foot or leg feels cold or changes color 

If you have surgery, call the doctor if you have:

    * A fever of 100Â°F (38Â°C) or higher
    * Drainage from the incisions
    * Bleeding that won't stop 

## Alternative Names

Medial collateral ligament injury - aftercare; MCL injury - aftercare; Lateral
collateral ligament injury - aftercare; LCL injury - aftercare; Knee injury -
collateral ligament

## Images

    * ![Medial collateral ligament](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8864t.jpg)Medial collateral ligament
    * ![Knee pain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19506t.jpg)Knee pain
    * ![Medial collateral ligament pain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8862t.jpg)Medial collateral ligament pain
    * ![Medial collateral ligament injury](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8863t.jpg)Medial collateral ligament injury
    * ![Torn medial collateral ligament](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8865t.jpg)Torn medial collateral ligament

## References

Lento P, Marshall B, Akuthota V. Collateral ligament sprain. In: Frontera, WR,
Silver JK, Rizzo TD, Jr, eds. _Essentials of Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation: Musculoskeletal Disorders, Pain, and Rehabilitation_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 66.

Miller RH, Azar FM. Knee injuries. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale ST, eds.
_Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 45.

Niska JA, Petrigliano FA, McAllister DR. Anterior cruciate ligament injuries
(including revision). In: Miller MD, Thompson SR, eds. _DeLee and Drez's
Orthopaedic Sports Medicine: Principles and Practice_. 4th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 98.

Wilson BF, Johnson DL. Medial collateral ligament and posterior medial corner
injuries. In: Miller MD, Thompson SR, eds. _DeLee and Drez's Orthopaedic
Sports Medicine: Principles and Practice_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 100.

## Review Date 4/21/2019

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Knee Injuries and Disorders

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

