Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007499.htm    
                                Description: Osteotomy of the knee is surgery that involves making a cut in one of the bones in your lower leg. This can be done to relieve symptoms of arthritis by realignment of your leg.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Osteotomy of the knee

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007499.htm

# Osteotomy of the knee

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Osteotomy of the knee is surgery that involves making a cut in one of the
bones in your lower leg. This can be done to relieve symptoms of arthritis by
realignment of your leg.

## Description

There are two types of surgery:

    * Tibial osteotomy is surgery done on the shin bone below the knee cap.
    * Femoral osteotomy is surgery done on the thigh bone above the knee cap. 

During surgery:

    * You will be pain-free during surgery. You may get spinal or epidural anesthesia, along with medicine to help you relax. You may also receive general anesthesia, in which you will be asleep.
    * Your surgeon will make a 4Â to 5 inch (10 to 13 centimeters) cut on the area where the osteotomy is being done.
    * The surgeon may remove a wedge of your shinbone from underneath the healthy side of your knee. This is called a closing wedge osteotomy.
    * The surgeon may also open a wedge on the painful side of the knee. This is called an opening wedge osteotomy.
    * Staples, screws, or plates may be used, depending on the type of osteotomy.
    * You may need a bone graft to fill in the wedge. 

In most cases, the procedure will take 1Â to 1 1/2 hours.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Osteotomy of the knee is done to treat symptoms of knee arthritis. It is done
when other treatments no longer offer relief.

Arthritis most often affects the inside part of the knee. Most of the time,
the outside part of the knee is not affected unless you have had a knee injury
in the past.

Osteotomy surgery works by shifting the weight away from the damaged part of
your knee. For the surgery to be successful, the side of the knee where the
weight is being shifted to should have little or no arthritis.

## Risks

The risks for any anesthesia or surgery are:

    * Allergic reactions to medicines
    * Breathing problems
    * Bleeding
    * Infection 

Other risks from this surgery include:

    * Blood clot in the leg.
    * Injury to a blood vessel or nerve.
    * Infection in the knee joint.
    * Knee stiffness or a knee joint that is not well-aligned.
    * Stiffness in the knee.
    * Failure of the fixation that requires more surgery.
    * Failure for the osteotomy to heal. This may require more surgery or treatment.

## Before the Procedure

Always tell your health care provider which drugs you are taking, even drugs,
supplements, or herbs you bought without a prescription.

During the 2 weeks before your surgery:

    * You may be asked to stop taking drugs that make it harder for your blood to clot. These include aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), naproxen (Naprosyn, Aleve), blood thinners such as warfarin (Coumadin), and other drugs.
    * Ask your provider which drugs you should still take on the day of your surgery.
    * Tell your provider if you have been drinking a lot of alcohol -- more than 1 or 2 drinks a day.
    * If you smoke, try to stop. Ask your providers for help. Smoking can slow down wound and bone healing. 

On the day of your surgery:

    * You will most often be asked not to drink or eat anything for 6 to 12 hours before the procedure.
    * Take the drugs your provider told you to take with a small sip of water.
    * You will be told when to arrive at the hospital. 

## After the Procedure

By having an osteotomy, you may be able to delay the need for a knee
replacement for up to 10 years, but still stay active with your own knee
joint.

A tibial osteotomy may make you look "knock-kneed." A femoral osteotomy may
make you look "bow legged."

## Outlook (Prognosis)

You will be fitted with a brace to limit how much you're able to move your
knee during the recovery period. The brace may also help hold your knee in the
correct position.

You will need to use crutches for 6 weeks or more. At first, you may be asked
to not place any weight on your knee. Ask your provider when it will be OK to
walk with weight on your leg that had the surgery. You will see a physical
therapist to help you with an exercise program.

Complete recovery may take several months to a year.

## Alternative Names

Proximal tibial osteotomy; Lateral closing wedge osteotomy; High tibial
osteotomy; Distal femoral osteotomy; Arthritis - osteotomy

## Images

    * ![Normal knee alignment](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19908t.jpg)Tibial osteotomy - series

## References

Crenshaw AH. Soft- tissue procedures and corrective osteotomies about the
knee. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative
Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 9.

Feldman A, Gonzalez-Lomas G, Swensen SJ, Kaplan DJ. Osteotomies about the
knee. In: Scott WN, ed. _Insall & Scott Surgery of the Knee_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 121.

## Review Date 7/7/2019

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Arthritis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ArthritisII_thumb.jpg)Arthritis
_Read more_

![Knee Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KneeInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Knee
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

