Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007361.htm    
                                Description: A knee MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) scan uses energy from strong magnets to create pictures of the knee joint and muscles and tissues.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Knee MRI scan

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007361.htm

# Knee MRI scan

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A knee MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) scan uses energy from strong magnets
to create pictures of the knee joint and muscles and tissues.

An MRI does not use radiation (x-rays). Single MRI images are called slices.
The images can be stored on a computer or printed on film. One exam produces
many images.

## How the Test is Performed

You will wear a hospital gown or clothes without metal zippers or snaps (such
as sweatpants and a t-shirt). Please remove your watches, glasses, jewelry,
and wallet. Certain types of metal can cause blurry images.

You will lie on a narrow table that slides into a large tunnel-like scanner.

Some exams use a special dye (contrast). Most of the time, you will get the
dye through a vein (IV) in your arm or hand before the test. Sometimes, the
dye is injected into a joint. The dye helps the radiologist see certain areas
more clearly.

During the MRI, the person who operates the machine will watch you from
another room. The test most often lasts 30 to 60 minutes, but may take longer.
It can be loud. The technician can give you some ear plugs if needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You may be asked not to eat or drink anything for 4 to 6 hours before the
scan.

Tell your health care provider if you are afraid of closed spaces (have
claustrophobia). You may be given a medicine to help you feel sleepy and less
anxious. Your provider may suggest an "open" MRI, in which the machine is not
as close to the body.

Before the test, tell your provider if you have:

    * Brain aneurysm clips
    * Certain types of artificial heart valves
    * Heart defibrillator or pacemaker
    * Inner ear (cochlear) implants
    * Kidney disease or dialysis (you may not be able to receive contrast)
    * Recently placed artificial joints
    * Certain types of vascular stents
    * Worked with sheet metal in the past (you may need tests to check for metal pieces in your eyes) 

Because the MRI contains strong magnets, metal objects are not allowed into
the room with the MRI scanner:

    * Pens, pocketknives, and eyeglasses may fly across the room.
    * Items such as jewelry, watches, credit cards, and hearing aids can be damaged.
    * Pins, hairpins, metal zippers, and similar metallic items can distort the images.
    * Removable dental work should be taken out just before the scan. 

## How the Test will Feel

An MRI exam causes no pain. You will need to lie still. Too much movement can
blur MRI images and cause errors.

The table may be hard or cold, but you can ask for a blanket or pillow. The
machine makes loud thumping and humming noises when turned on. You can wear
ear plugs to help block out the noise.

An intercom in the room allows you to speak to someone at any time. Some MRIs
have televisions and special headphones to help the time pass.

There is no recovery time, unless you were given a medicine to relax. After an
MRI scan, you can return to your normal diet, activity, and medicines.

## Why the Test is Performed

Your provider may order this test if you have:

    * An abnormal result on a knee x-ray or bone scan
    * A feeling that your knee is giving away in the knee joint
    * Buildup of joint fluid behind the knee (Baker cyst)
    * Fluid collecting in the knee joint
    * Infection of the knee joint
    * Knee cap injury
    * Knee pain with fever
    * Knee locking when you walk or moving
    * Signs of damage to the knee muscle, cartilage, or ligaments
    * Knee pain that does not get better with treatment 
    * Instability of the knee

You may also have this test to check your progress after knee surgery.

## Normal Results

A normal result means your knee looks OK.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be due to a sprain or tear of the ligaments in the knee
area.

Abnormal results may also be due to:

    * Degeneration or changes that occur with age
    * Meniscus or cartilage injuries
    * Arthritis of the knee
    * Avascular necrosis (also called osteonecrosis)
    * Bone tumor or cancer
    * Broken bone
    * Buildup of joint fluid behind the knee (Baker cyst)
    * Infection in the bone (osteomyelitis)
    * Inflammation
    * Injury of the knee cap 

Talk to your provider if you have questions or concerns.

## Risks

MRI contains no radiation. There have been no reported side effects from the
magnetic fields and radio waves.

The most common type of contrast (dye) used is gadolinium. It is very safe.
Allergic reactions to the substance are rare. However, gadolinium can be
harmful to people with kidney problems that need dialysis. If you have kidney
problems, please tell your provider before the test.

The strong magnetic fields created during an MRI can cause heart pacemakers
and other implants to not work as well. It can also cause small pieces of
metal inside your body to move or shift. For safety reasons, please do not
bring anything that contains metal into the scanner room.

## Considerations

Tests that may be done instead of a knee MRI include:

    * CT scan of the knee
    * Knee x-ray

## Alternative Names

MRI - knee; Magnetic resonance imaging - knee

## Patient Instructions

    * ACL reconstruction - discharge 

## References

Chalmers PN, Chahal J, Bach BR. Knee diagnosis and decision making. In: Miller
MD, Thompson SR, eds. _DeLee and Drez's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 92.

Helms CA. Magnetic resonance imaging of the knee. In: Helms CA, ed.
_Fundamentals of Skeletal Radiology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2020:chap 9.

Thomsen HS, Reimer P. Intravascular contrast media for radiography, CT, MRI
and ultrasound. In: Adam A, Dixon AK, Gillard JH, Schaefer-Prokop CM, eds.
_Grainger & Allison's Diagnostic Radiology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Churchill Livingstone; 2015:chap 2.

Wilkinson ID, Graves MJ. Magnetic resonance imaging. In: Adam A, Dixon AK,
Gillard JH, Schaefer-Prokop CM, eds. _Grainger & Allison's Diagnostic
Radiology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone;
2015:chap 5.

## Review Date 3/17/2019

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Knee Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KneeInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Knee
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![MRI Scans](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MRIScans_thumb.jpg)MRI Scans _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

