Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000167.htm    
                                Description: Before you go to the hospital for surgery, set up your home to make your recovery and life easier when you come back. Do this well in advance of your surgery.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Getting your home ready - knee or hip surgery

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000167.htm

# Getting your home ready - knee or hip surgery

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Before you go to the hospital for surgery, set up your home to make your
recovery and life easier when you come back. Do this well in advance of your
surgery.

Ask your health care provider or physical therapist about getting your home
ready.

## Make It Easy for Yourself

Make sure everything you need is easy to get to and on the floor where you
will spend most of your time. Limit your stair use to once a day.

    * Have a bed that is low enough so that your feet touch the floor when you sit on the edge of the bed.
    * Set up your bed on the first floor if you can. You may not need a hospital bed, but your mattress should be firm.
    * Have a bathroom or a portable commode on the same floor where you will spend most of your day.
    * Stock up on canned or frozen food, toilet paper, shampoo, and other personal items.
    * Make or buy single meals that can be frozen and reheated.
    * Make sure you can reach everything you need without getting on your tiptoes or bending down low.
    * Put food and other supplies in a cupboard that is between your waist and shoulder level.
    * Place glasses, your teapot, and other items you use a lot on the kitchen counter.
    * Make sure you can get to your phone. A portable phone can be helpful.
    * Place a chair with a firm back in the kitchen, bedroom, bathroom, and other rooms you will use. This way, you can sit when you do your daily tasks.
    * If you will be using a walker, attach a sturdy bag or a small basket. Put in it the things you need to have close by such as your phone, a notepad, a pen, and other necessary items. You can also use a fanny pack. 

You may need help bathing, using the toilet, cooking, running errands,
shopping, going to provider visits, and exercising. If you do not have someone
to help you at home for the first 1 or 2 weeks after surgery, ask your
provider about having a trained caregiver come to your home. This person can
also check the safety of your home and help you with your daily activities.

Other items that may help:

    * A shower sponge with a long handle
    * A shoehorn with a long handle
    * A cane, crutches, or a walker
    * A reacher to help you pick up things from the floor, put on your pants, and take off your socks
    * A sock aid to help you put on your socks
    * Handle bars in the bathroom to allow you to steady yourself 

## Bathroom Setup

Raising the toilet seat height will keep you from flexing your knee too much.
You can do this by adding a seat cover or elevated toilet seat or a toilet
safety frame. You can also use a commode chair instead of a toilet.

You may need to have safety bars in your bathroom. Grab bars should be secured
vertically or horizontally to the wall, not diagonally.

    * DO NOT use towel racks as grab bars. They cannot support your weight.
    * You will need two grab bars. One helps you get in and out of the tub. The other helps you stand from a sitting position. 

You can make several changes to protect yourself when you take a bath or
shower:

    * Put non-slip suction mats or rubber silicone decals in the tub to prevent falls.
    * Use a non-skid bath mat outside the tub for firm footing.
    * Keep the floor outside the tub or shower dry.
    * Place soap and shampoo where you do not need to stand up, reach, or twist. 

Sit on a bath or shower chair when taking a shower:

    * Make sure it has rubber tips on the bottom.
    * Buy a seat without arms if it is placed in a bathtub. 

## Avoiding Falls

Keep tripping hazards out of your home.

    * Remove loose wires or cords from areas you walk through to get from one room to another.
    * Remove loose throw rugs.
    * Fix any uneven flooring in doorways. Use good lighting.
    * Have night lights placed in hallways and rooms that can be dark.

Pets that are small or move around may cause you to trip. For the first few
weeks you are home, consider having your pet stay elsewhere (with a friend, in
a kennel, or in the yard).

DO NOT carry anything when you are walking around. You may need your hands to
help you balance. Use a small backpack or fanny pack to carry things such as
your phone.

Practice using a cane, walker, crutches, or a wheelchair. It is especially
important to practice the correct ways to:

    * Sit down to use the toilet and stand up after using the toilet
    * Get in and out of the shower
    * Use the shower chair
    * Go up and down stairs 

## Alternative Names

Hip or knee surgery - getting your home ready; Osteoarthritis - knee

## References

Niska JA, Petrigliano FA, McAllister DR. Anterior cruciate ligament injuries
(including revision). In: Miller MD, Thompson SR, eds. _DeLee and Drez's
Orthopaedic Sports Medicine_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 98.

Rizzo TD. Total hip replacement. In: Frontera WR, Silver JK, Rizzo TD, eds.
_Essentials of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation_. 4th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 61.

Weinlein JC. Fractures and dislocations of the hip. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH,
Canale ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 55.

## Read More

    * ACL reconstruction
    * Hip fracture surgery
    * Hip joint replacement
    * Knee arthroscopy
    * Knee joint replacement
    * Knee microfracture surgery

## Patient Instructions

    * ACL reconstruction - discharge 
    * Hip fracture - discharge 
    * Hip or knee replacement - after - what to ask your doctor 
    * Hip or knee replacement - before - what to ask your doctor 
    * Hip replacement - discharge 
    * Knee arthroscopy - discharge 
    * Knee joint replacement - discharge 
    * Preventing falls - what to ask your doctor 
    * Taking care of your new hip joint

## Review Date 11/5/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Hip Injuries and Disorders
    * Hip Replacement
    * Knee Injuries and Disorders
    * Knee Replacement

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

