Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000766.htm    
                                Description: Delirium tremens is a severe form of alcohol withdrawal. It involves sudden and severe mental or nervous system changes.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Delirium tremens

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000766.htm

# Delirium tremens

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Delirium tremens is a severe form of alcohol withdrawal. It involves sudden
and severe mental or nervous system changes.

## Causes

Delirium tremens can occur when you stop drinking alcohol after a period of
heavy drinking, especially if you do not eat enough food.

Delirium tremens may also be caused by head injury, infection, or illness in
people with a history of heavy alcohol use.

It occurs most often in people who have a history of alcohol withdrawal. It is
especially common in those who drink 4 to 5 pints (1.8 to 2.4 liters) of wine,
7 to 8 pints (3.3 to 3.8 liters) of beer, or 1 pint (1/2 liter) of "hard"
alcohol every day for several months. Delirium tremens also commonly affects
people who have used alcohol for more than 10 years.

## Symptoms

Symptoms most often occur within 48 to 96 hours after the last drink. But,
they may occur 7 to 10 days after the last drink.

Symptoms may get worse quickly, and can include:

    * Delirium, which is sudden severe confusion
    * Body tremors
    * Changes in mental function
    * Agitation, irritability
    * Deep sleep that lasts for a day or longer
    * Excitement or fear
    * Hallucinations (seeing or feeling things that are not really there)
    * Bursts of energy
    * Quick mood changes
    * Restlessness
    * Sensitivity to light, sound, touch
    * Stupor, sleepiness, fatigue

Seizures (may occur without other symptoms of DTs):

    * Most common in the first 12 to 48 hours after the last drink
    * Most common in people with past complications from alcohol withdrawal
    * Usually generalized tonic-clonic seizures

Symptoms of alcohol withdrawal, including:

    * Anxiety, depression
    * Fatigue 
    * Headache
    * Insomnia (difficulty falling and staying asleep)
    * Irritability or excitability
    * Loss of appetite
    * Nausea, vomiting
    * Nervousness, jumpiness, shakiness, palpitations (sensation of feeling the heart beat)
    * Pale skin
    * Rapid emotional changes
    * Sweating, especially on the palms of the hands or the face 

Other symptoms that may occur:

    * Chest pain
    * Fever
    * Stomach pain

## Exams and Tests

Delirium tremens is a medical emergency.

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. Signs may include:

    * Heavy sweating
    * Increased startle reflex
    * Irregular heartbeat
    * Problems with eye muscle movement
    * Rapid heart rate
    * Rapid muscle tremors 

The following tests may be done:

    * Blood magnesium level
    * Blood phosphate level
    * Comprehensive metabolic panel
    * Electrocardiogram (ECG)
    * Electroencephalogram (EEG)
    * Toxicology screen

## Treatment

The goals of treatment are to:

    * Save the person's life
    * Relieve symptoms
    * Prevent complications 

A hospital stay is needed. The health care team will regularly check:

    * Blood chemistry results, such as electrolyte levels
    * Body fluid levels
    * Vital signs (temperature, pulse, breathing rate, blood pressure) 

While in the hospital, the person will receive medicines to:

    * Stay calm and relaxed (sedated) until the DTs are finished
    * Treat seizures, anxiety, or tremors
    * Treat mental disorders, if any 

Long-term preventive treatment should begin after the person recovers from DT
symptoms. This may involve:

    * A "drying out" period, in which no alcohol is allowed
    * Total and lifelong avoidance of alcohol (abstinence)
    * Counseling
    * Going to support groups (such as Alcoholics Anonymous) 

Treatment may be needed for other medical problems that can occur with alcohol
use, including:

    * Alcoholic cardiomyopathy
    * Alcoholic liver disease
    * Alcoholic neuropathy
    * Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome

## Support Groups

Attending a support group regularly is a key to recovering from alcohol use.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Delirium tremens is serious and may be life threatening. Some symptoms related
to alcohol withdrawal may last for a year or more, including:

    * Emotional mood swings
    * Feeling tired
    * Sleeplessness

## Possible Complications

Complications can include:

    * Injury from falls during seizures
    * Injury to self or others caused by mental state (confusion/delirium)
    * Irregular heartbeat, may be life threatening
    * Seizures 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Go to the emergency room or call the local emergency number (such as 911) if
you have symptoms. Delirium tremens is an emergency condition.

If you go to the hospital for another reason, tell the providers if you've
been drinking heavily so they can monitor you for symptoms of alcohol
withdrawal.

## Prevention

Avoid or reduce the use of alcohol. Get prompt medical treatment for symptoms
of alcohol withdrawal.

## Alternative Names

Alcohol abuse - delirium tremens;Â DTs; Alcohol withdrawal - delirium tremens;
Alcohol withdrawal delirium

## References

Kelly JF, Renner JA. Alcohol-related disorders. In: Stern TA, Fava M, Wilens
TE, Rosenbaum JF, eds. _Massachusetts General Hospital Comprehensive Clinical
Psychiatry_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 26.

Mirijello A, D'Angelo C, Ferrulli A, et al. Identification and management of
alcohol withdrawal syndrome. _Drugs_. 2015;75(4):353-365. PMID: 25666543
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25666543.

O'Connor PG. Alcohol use disorders. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 33.

## Review Date 1/10/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Alcoholism and Alcohol
Abuse](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Alcohol2_thumb.jpg)Alcohol Use Disorder
(AUD) _Read more_

![Delirium](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Delirium_thumb.jpg)Delirium _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

