Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000944.htm    
                                Description: Alcohol use disorder is when your drinking causes serious problems in your life, yet you keep drinking. You may also need more and more alcohol to feel drunk. Stopping suddenly may cause withdrawal symptoms.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Alcohol use disorder

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000944.htm

# Alcohol use disorder

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Alcohol use disorder is when your drinking causes serious problems in your
life, yet you keep drinking. You may also need more and more alcohol to feel
drunk. Stopping suddenly may cause withdrawal symptoms.

## Causes

No one knows what causes problems with alcohol. Health experts think that it
may be a combination of a person's:

    * Genes
    * Environment
    * Psychology, such as being impulsive or having low self-esteem

Long-term risks of drinking an excessive amount of alcohol are more likely if:

    * You are a man who has more than 2 drinks per day, orÂ 15 or more drinks a week, or often have 5 or more drinks at a time
    * You are a woman who has more than 1 drink per day, orÂ 8 or more drinks a week, or often have 4 or more drinks at a time

One drink is defined as 12 ounces or 360 milliliters (mL) of beer (5% alcohol
content), 5 ounces or 150 mL of wine (12% alcohol content), or a 1.5-ounce or
45-mL shot of liquor (80 proof, or 40% alcohol content).

If you have a parent with alcohol use disorder, you are more at risk for
alcohol problems.

You also may be more likely to have problems with alcohol if you:

    * Are a young adult under peer pressure
    * Have depression, bipolar disorder, anxiety disorders, post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), or schizophrenia
    * Can easily obtain alcohol
    * Have low self-esteem
    * Have problems with relationships
    * Live a stressful lifestyle

If you are concerned about your drinking, it may help to take a careful look
at your alcohol use.

## Symptoms

Health care providers have developed a list of symptoms that a person has to
have in the past year to be diagnosed with alcohol use disorder.

Symptoms may include:

    * Times when you drink more or longer than you planned to.
    * Wanted to, or tried to, cut down or stop drinking, but could not.
    * Spend a lot of time and effort to get alcohol, use it, or recover from its effects.
    * Crave alcohol or have a strong urge to use it.
    * Alcohol use is causing you to miss work or school, or you do not perform as well because of drinking.
    * Continue to drink, even when relationships with family and friends are being harmed.
    * Stop taking part in activities that you used to enjoy.
    * While or after drinking, you get into situations that can cause you to get hurt, such as driving, using machinery, or having unsafe sex.
    * Keep drinking, even though you know it is making a health problem caused by alcohol worse.
    * Need more and more alcohol to feel its effects or to get drunk.
    * You get withdrawal symptoms when the effects of alcohol wear off.

## Exams and Tests

Your provider will:

    * Examine you
    * Ask about your medical and family history
    * Ask about your alcohol use, and if you have any of the symptoms listed above 

Your provider may order tests to check for health problems that are common in
people who use alcohol. These tests may include:

    * Blood alcohol level (This shows if you have recently been drinking alcohol. It does not diagnose alcohol use disorder.)
    * Complete blood count
    * Liver function tests
    * Magnesium blood test

## Treatment

Many people with an alcohol problem need to completely stop using alcohol.
This is called abstinence. Having strong social and family support can help
make it easier to quit drinking.

Some people are able to just cut back on their drinking. So even if you do not
give up alcohol altogether, you may be able to drink less. This can improve
your health and relationships with others. It can also help you perform better
at work or school.

However, many people who drink too much find they can't just cut back.
Abstinence may be the only way to manage a drinking problem.

DECIDING TO QUIT

Like many people with an alcohol problem, you may not recognize that your
drinking has gotten out of your control. An important first step is to be
aware of how much you drink. It also helps to understand the health risks of
alcohol.

If you decide to quit drinking, talk with your provider. Treatment involves
helping you realize how much your alcohol use is harming your life and the
lives those around you.

Depending on how much and how long you have been drinking, you may be at risk
for alcohol withdrawal. Withdrawal can be very uncomfortable and even life
threatening. If you have been drinking a lot, you should cut back or stop
drinking only under the care of a provider. Talk with your provider about how
to stop using alcohol.

LONG-TERM SUPPORT

Alcohol recovery or support programs can help you stop drinking completely.
These programs usually offer:

    * Education about alcohol use and its effects
    * Counseling and therapy to discuss how to control your thoughts and behaviors
    * Physical health care

For the best chance of success, you should live with people who support your
efforts to avoid alcohol. Some programs offer housing options for people with
alcohol problems. Depending on your needs and the programs that are available:

    * You may be treated in a special recovery center (inpatient)
    * You may attend a program while you live at home (outpatient)

You may be prescribed medicines to help you quit. They are often used with
long-term counseling or support groups. These medicines make it less likely
that you will drink again or help limit the amount you drink.

Drinking may mask depression or other mood or anxiety disorders. If you have a
mood disorder, it may become more noticeable when you stop drinking. Your
provider will treat any mental disorders in addition to your alcohol
treatment.

## Support Groups

Support groups help many people who are dealing with alcohol use. Talk to your
provider about a support group that might be right for you.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well a person does depends on whether they can successfully cut back or
stop drinking.

It may take several tries to stop drinking for good. If you are struggling to
quit, do not give up hope. Getting treatment, if needed, along with support
and encouragement from support groups and those around you can help you remain
sober.

## Possible Complications

Alcohol use disorder can increase your risk of many health problems,
including:

    * Bleeding in the digestive tract
    * Brain cell damage
    * A brain disorder called Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome
    * Cancer of the esophagus, liver, colon, breast, and other areas
    * Changes in the menstrual cycle
    * Delirium tremens (DTs)
    * Dementia and memory loss
    * Depression and suicide
    * Erectile dysfunction
    * Heart damage
    * High blood pressure
    * Inflammation of the pancreas (pancreatitis)
    * Liver disease, including cirrhosis
    * Nerve and brain damage
    * Poor nutrition
    * Sleeping problems (insomnia)
    * Sexually transmitted infections (STIs) 

Alcohol use also increases your risk for violence.

Drinking alcohol while you are pregnant can lead to severe birth defects in
the baby. This is called fetal alcohol syndrome. Drinking alcohol while you
are breastfeeding can also cause problems for your baby.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Talk with your provider if you or someone you know may have an alcohol
problem.

Seek immediate medical care or call your local emergency number (such as 911)
if you or someone you know has an alcohol problem and develops severe
confusion, seizures, or bleeding.

## Prevention

The National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism recommends:

    * Women should not drink more than 1 drink per day
    * Men should not drink more than 2 drinks per day

## Alternative Names

Alcohol dependence; Alcohol abuse; Problem drinking; Drinking problem; Alcohol
addiction; Alcoholism - alcohol use; Substance use - alcohol

## Patient Instructions

    * Cirrhosis - discharge
    * Pancreatitis - discharge

## Images

    * ![Liver cirrhosis - CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1176t.jpg)Liver cirrhosis - CT scan
    * ![Fatty liver - CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1178t.jpg)Fatty liver - CT scan
    * ![Liver with disproportional fattening - CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1179t.jpg)Liver with disproportional fattening - CT scan
    * ![Alcoholism](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17018t.jpg)Alcoholism
    * ![Alcohol use disorder](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17020t.jpg)Alcohol use disorder
    * ![Alcohol and diet](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17023t.jpg)Alcohol and diet
    * ![Liver anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8848t.jpg)Liver anatomy

## References

American Psychiatric Association. Substance-related and addictive disorders.
In: American Psychiatric Association. _Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of
Mental Disorders_. 5th ed. Arlington, VA: American Psychiatric Publishing.
2013:481-590.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; National Center for Chronic
Disease Prevention and Health Promotion. CDC vital signs: alcohol screening
and counseling. www.cdc.gov/vitalsigns/alcohol-screening-counseling. Updated
January 7, 2014. Accessed April 15, 2019.

Reus VI, Fochtmann LJ, Bukstein O, et al. The American Psychiatric Association
practice guideline for the pharmacological treatment of patients with alcohol
use disorder. _Am J Psychiatry_. 2018;175(1):86-90. PMID: 29301420
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29301420.

Sherin K, Seikel S, Hale S. Alcohol use disorders. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP,
eds. _Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 48.

US Preventive Services Task Force, Curry SJ, Krist AH, et al. Screening and
behavioral counseling interventions to reduce unhealthy alcohol use in
adolescents and adults: US Preventive Services Task Force recommendation
statement. _JAMA_. 2018;320(18):1899-1909. PMID: 30422199
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30422199.

## Review Date 4/8/2018

Updated by: Ryan James Kimmel, MD, Medical Director of Hospital Psychiatry at
the University of Washington Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Internal review and
update on 04/15/2019 by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Alcoholism and Alcohol
Abuse](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Alcohol2_thumb.jpg)Alcohol Use Disorder
(AUD) _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

