Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000281.htm    
                                Description: Alcoholic liver disease is damage to the liver and its function due to alcohol abuse.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Alcoholic liver disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000281.htm

# Alcoholic liver disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Alcoholic liver disease is damage to the liver and its function due to alcohol
abuse.

![Digestive system
organs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/8710.jpg)

## Causes

Alcoholic liver disease occurs after years of heavy drinking. Over time,
scarring and cirrhosis can occur. Cirrhosis is the final phase of alcoholic
liver disease.

Alcoholic liver disease does not occur in all heavy drinkers. The chances of
getting liver disease go up the longer you have been drinking and more alcohol
you consume. You do not have to get drunk for the disease to happen.

The disease is common in people between 40 and 50 years of age. Men are more
likely to have this problem. However, women may develop the disease after less
exposure to alcohol than men. Some people may have an inherited risk for the
disease.

## Symptoms

There may be no symptoms, or symptoms may come on slowly. This dependsÂ on how
well the liver is working. Symptoms tend to be worse after a period of heavy
drinking.

Early symptoms include:

    * Loss of energy
    * Poor appetite and weight loss
    * Nausea
    * Belly pain
    * Small, red spider-like blood vessels on the skin

As liver function worsens, symptoms may include:

    * Fluid buildup of the legs (edema) and in the abdomen (ascites)
    * Yellow color in the skin, mucous membranes, or eyes (jaundice)
    * Redness on the palms of the hands
    * In men, impotence, shrinking of the testicles, and breast swelling
    * Easy bruising and abnormal bleeding
    * Confusion or problems thinking
    * Pale or clay-colored stools

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will do a physical exam to look for:

    * An enlarged liver or spleen
    * Excess breast tissue
    * Swollen abdomen, as a result of too much fluid
    * Reddened palms
    * Red spider-like blood vessels on the skin
    * Small testicles
    * Widened veins in the abdomen wall
    * Yellow eyes or skin (jaundice)

Tests you may have include:

    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * Liver function tests
    * Coagulation studies
    * Liver biopsy

Tests to rule out other diseases include:

    * Abdominal CT scan
    * Blood tests for other causes of liver disease
    * Ultrasound of the abdomen
    * Ultrasound elastography

## Treatment

LIFESTYLE CHANGES

Some things you can do to help take care of your liver disease are:

    * Stop drinking alcohol.
    * Eat a healthy diet that is low in salt.
    * Get vaccinated for diseases such as influenza, hepatitis A and hepatitis B, and pneumococcal pneumonia.
    * Talk to your provider about all medicines you take, including herbs and supplements and over-the-counter medicines.

MEDICINES FROM YOUR DOCTOR

    * "Water pills" (diuretics) to get rid of fluid buildup
    * Vitamin K or blood products to prevent excess bleeding
    * Medicines for mental confusion
    * Antibiotics for infections

OTHER TREATMENTS

    * Endoscopic treatments for enlarged veins in the esophagus (esophageal varices)
    * Removal of fluid from the abdomen (paracentesis)
    * Placement of a transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt (TIPS) to repair blood flow in the liver

When cirrhosis progresses to end-stage liver disease, a liver transplant may
be needed. Liver transplantation for alcoholic liver disease is only
considered in people who have completely avoided alcohol for 6 months.

## Support Groups

Many people benefit from joining support groups for alcoholism or liver
disease.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Alcoholic liver disease is treatable if it is caught before it causes severe
damage. However, continued excessive drinking can shorten your lifespan.

Cirrhosis further worsens the condition and can lead to serious complications.
In case of severe damage, the liver cannot heal or return to normal function.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Bleeding disorders (coagulopathy)
    * Buildup of fluid in the abdomen (ascites) and infection of the fluid (bacterial peritonitis)
    * Enlarged veins in the esophagus, stomach, or intestines that bleed easily (esophageal varices)
    * Increased pressure in the blood vessels of the liver (portal hypertension)
    * Kidney failure (hepatorenal syndrome)
    * Liver cancer (hepatocellular carcinoma)
    * Mental confusion, change in the level of consciousness, or coma (hepatic encephalopathy)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your provider if you:

    * Develop symptoms of alcoholic liver disease
    * Develop symptoms after a long period of heavy drinking
    * Are worried that drinking may be harming your health

Get emergency medical help right away if you have:

    * Abdominal or chest pain
    * Abdominal swelling or ascites that is new or suddenly becomes worse
    * A fever (temperature greater than 101Â°F, or 38.3Â°C)
    * Diarrhea
    * New confusion or a change in alertness, or it gets worse
    * Rectal bleeding, vomiting blood, or blood in the urine
    * Shortness of breath
    * Vomiting more than once a day
    * Yellowing skin or eyes (jaundice) that is new or gets worse quickly

## Prevention

Talk openly to your provider about your alcohol intake. The provider can
counsel you about how much alcohol is safe for you.

## Alternative Names

Liver disease due to alcohol; Cirrhosis or hepatitis - alcoholic; Laennec's
cirrhosis

## Patient Instructions

    * Cirrhosis - discharge

## Images

    * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
    * ![Liver anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8848t.jpg)Liver anatomy
    * ![Fatty liver - CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1178t.jpg)Fatty liver - CT scan

## References

Carithers RL, McClain CJ. Alcoholic liver disease. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS,
Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver
Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 86.

Chalasani NP. Alcoholic and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2020:chap 143.

Haines EJ, Oyama LC. Disorders of the liver and biliary tract. In: Walls RM,
Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and
Clinical Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 80.

HÃ¼bscher SG. Alcohol-induced liver disease. In: Saxena R, ed. _Practical
Hepatic Pathology: A Diagnostic Approach_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2018:chap 24.

## Review Date 7/10/2019

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Alcoholism and Alcohol
Abuse](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Alcohol2_thumb.jpg)Alcohol Use Disorder
(AUD) _Read more_

![Fatty
liver](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FattyLiverDisease_thumb.jpg)Fatty Liver
Disease _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

