Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000323.htm    
                                Description: Alcoholic ketoacidosis is the buildup of ketones in the blood due to alcohol use. Ketones are a type of acid that form when the body breaks down fat for energy.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Alcoholic ketoacidosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000323.htm

# Alcoholic ketoacidosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Alcoholic ketoacidosis is the buildup of ketones in the blood due to alcohol
use. Ketones are a type of acid that form when the body breaks down fat for
energy.

The condition is an acute form of metabolic acidosis, a condition in which
there is too much acid in body fluids.

## Causes

Alcoholic ketoacidosis is caused by very heavy alcohol use. It most often
occurs in a malnourished person who drinks large amounts of alcohol every day.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of alcoholic ketoacidosis include:

    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Abdominal pain
    * Agitation, confusion
    * Changed level of alertness, which may lead to coma
    * Fatigue, slow movements
    * Deep, labored, rapid breathing
    * Loss of appetite
    * Symptoms of dehydration, such as dizziness, lightheadedness, and thirst

## Exams and Tests

Tests may include:

    * Arterial blood gases (measures the acid/base balance and oxygen level in blood)
    * Blood alcohol level
    * Blood chemistries and liver function tests
    * CBC (complete blood count), measures red and white blood cells, and platelets, which help blood to clot)
    * Prothrombin time (PT), measures blood clotting, often abnormal from liver disease
    * Toxicology study
    * Urine ketones

## Treatment

Treatment may involve fluids (salt and sugar solution) given through a vein.
You may need to have frequent blood tests. You may get vitamin supplements to
treat malnutrition caused by excess alcohol use.

People with this condition are usually admitted to the hospital, often to the
intensive care unit (ICU). Alcohol use is stopped to help recovery. Medicines
may be given to prevent alcohol withdrawal symptoms.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Prompt medical attention improves the overall outlook. How severe the alcohol
use is, and the presence of liver disease or other problems, may also affect
the outlook.

## Possible Complications

This can be a life-threatening condition. Complications may include:

    * Coma and seizures
    * Gastrointestinal bleeding
    * Inflamed pancreas (pancreatitis)
    * Pneumonia

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

If you or someone else has symptoms of alcoholic ketoacidosis, seek emergency
medical help.

## Prevention

Limiting the amount of alcohol you drink may help prevent this condition.

## Alternative Names

Ketoacidosis - alcoholic; Alcohol use - alcoholic ketoacidosis

## References

Finnell JT. Alcohol-related disease. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
RM, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2018:chap 142.

Seifter JL. Acid-base disorders. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 118.

## Review Date 4/8/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Alcoholism and Alcohol
Abuse](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Alcohol2_thumb.jpg)Alcohol Use Disorder
(AUD) _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

