Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/blood-alcohol-level/    
                                Description: A blood alcohol test measures the level of alcohol in your blood. It&#39;s used to see if you&#39;ve been drinking more than the legal alcohol limit. You may also be tested if you&#39;re suspected of drinking and driving. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Blood Alcohol Level

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/blood-alcohol-level/

# Blood Alcohol Level

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a blood alcohol test?

A blood alcohol test measures the level of Alcohol in your blood. Most people
are more familiar with the breathalyzer, a test often used by police officers
on people suspected of drunk driving. While a breathalyzer gives fast results,
it is not as accurate as measuring alcohol in the blood.

Alcohol, also known as ethanol, is the main ingredient of alcoholic drinks
such as beer, wine, and liquor. When you have an alcoholic drink, it is
absorbed into your bloodstream and processed by the liver. Your liver can
process about one drink an hour. One drink is usually defined as 12 ounces of
beer, 5 ounces of wine, or 1.5 ounces of whiskey.

If you are drinking faster than your liver can process the alcohol, you may
feel the effects of drunkenness, also called intoxication. These include
behavioral changes and impaired judgment. The effects of alcohol can vary from
person to person, depending on a variety of factors such as age, weight,
gender, and how much food you ate before drinking.

Other names: blood alcohol level test, ethanol test, ethyl alcohol, blood
alcohol content

## What is it used for?

A blood alcohol test may be used to find out if you:

    * **Have beendrinking and driving.** In the United States, .08 percent blood alcohol level is the legal alcohol limit for drivers who are aged 21 and over. Drivers younger than 21 are not allowed to have any alcohol in their system when driving.
    * **Are legally drunk.** The legal alcohol limit for drinking in public varies from state to state.
    * **Have been drinking while in atreatment program that prohibits drinking.**
    * **Have alcohol poisoning,** a life-threatening condition that happens when your blood alcohol level gets very high. Alcohol poisoning can seriously affect basic body functions, including breathing, heart rate, and temperature.

Teens and young adults are at higher risk for binge drinking, which can cause
alcohol poisoning. Binge drinking is a pattern of drinking that raises the
blood alcohol level within a short period of time. Though it varies from
person to person, binge drinking is usually defined as four drinks for women
and five drinks for men in a two-hour period.

Young children may get alcohol poisoning from drinking household products that
contain alcohol, such as mouthwash, hand sanitizer, and certain cold
medicines.

## Why do I need a blood alcohol test?

You may need a blood alcohol test if you are suspected of drunk driving and/or
have symptoms of intoxication. These include:

    * Difficulty with balance and coordination
    * Slurred speech
    * Slowed reflexes
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Mood changes
    * Poor judgment

You or your child may also need this test if there are symptoms of alcohol
poisoning. In addition to the above symptoms, alcohol poisoning can cause:

    * Confusion
    * Irregular breathing
    * Seizures
    * Low body temperature

## What happens during a blood alcohol test?

A health care professional will take a blood sample from a vein in your arm,
using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a small amount of blood
will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel a little sting when
the needle goes in or out. This process usually takes less than five minutes.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You don't need any special preparations for a blood alcohol test.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

## What do the results mean?

Blood alcohol level results may be given in different ways, including
percentage of blood alcohol content (BAC). Typical results are below.

    * **Sober:** 0.0 percent BAC
    * **Legally intoxicated:** .08 percent BAC
    * **Very impaired:** .08â0.40 percent BAC. At this blood alcohol level, you may have difficulty walking and speaking. Other symptoms may include confusion, nausea, and drowsiness.
    * **At risk for serious complications:** Above .40 percent BAC. At this blood alcohol level, you may be at risk for coma or death.

The timing of this test can affect the accuracy of the results. A blood
alcohol test is only accurate within 6â12 hours after your last drink. If
you have questions or concerns about your results, you may want to talk to a
health care provider and/or a lawyer.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about a blood alcohol test?

A police officer may ask you to take a breathalyzer test if you are suspected
of drunk driving. If you refuse to take a breathalyzer, or think the test
wasn't accurate, you may ask for or be asked to take a blood alcohol test.

## References

    1. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Alcohol and Public Health: Frequently Asked Questions [updated 2017 Jun 8; cited 2018 Mar 8]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/alcohol/faqs.htm
    2. ClinLab Navigator [Internet]. ClinLab Navigator; c2018. Alcohol (Ethanol, Ethyl Alcohol) [cited 2018 Mar 8]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: http://www.clinlabnavigator.com/alcohol-ethanol-ethyl-alcohol.html
    3. Drugs.com [Internet]. Drugs.com; c2000â2018. Alcohol Intoxication [updated 2018 Mar 1; cited 2018 Mar 8]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.drugs.com/cg/alcohol-intoxication.html
    4. Hinkle J, Cheever K. Brunner & Suddarthâs Handbook of Laboratory and Diagnostic Tests. 2nd Ed, Kindle. Philadelphia: Wolters Kluwer Health, Lippincott Williams & Wilkins; c2014. Ethyl Alcohol Levels (Blood, Urine, Breath, Saliva) (Alcohol, EtOH); 278 p.
    5. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. Ethanol [updated 2018 Mar 8; cited 2018 Mar 8]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/ethanol
    6. Mayo Clinic: Mayo Medical Laboratories [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1995â2018. Test ID: ALC: Ethanol, Blood: Clinical and Interpretive [cited 2018 Mar 8]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayomedicallaboratories.com/test-catalog/Clinical+and+Interpretive/8264
    7. National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Alcohol Overdose: The Dangers of Drinking Too Much; 2015 October [cited 2018 Mar 8]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://pubs.niaaa.nih.gov/publications/AlcoholOverdoseFactsheet/Overdosefact.htm
    8. National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Drinking Levels Defined [cited 2018 Mar 8]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.niaaa.nih.gov/alcohol-health/overview-alcohol-consumption/moderate-binge-drinking
    9. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Blood Tests [cited 2018 Mar 8]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    10. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2017. Health Encyclopedia: Ethanol (Blood) [cited 2018 Mar 8]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid;=ethanol_blood
    11. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Blood Alcohol: Results [updated 2017 Oct 9; cited 2018 Mar 8]; [about 8 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/blood-alcohol-test/hw3564.html#hw3588
    12. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Blood Alcohol: Test Overview [updated 2017 Oct 9; cited 2018 Mar 8]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/blood-alcohol-test/hw3564.html
    13. TEUW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Blood Alcohol: What To Think About [updated 2017 Oct 9; cited 2018 Mar 8]; [about 10 screens].XT Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/blood-alcohol-test/hw3564.html#hw3598
    14. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2018. Blood Alcohol: Why It is Done [updated 2017 Oct 9; cited 2018 Mar 8]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/blood-alcohol-test/hw3564.html#hw3573

## Related Health Topics

    * Alcohol
    * Alcohol Use Disorder (AUD)
    * Alcohol Use Disorder (AUD) Treatment
    * Impaired Driving
    * Liver Diseases
    * Underage Drinking

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Drug Testing
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 24 February 2020 Page last reviewed: 24 July 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

