Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000503.htm    
                                Description: Health care providers consider you to be drinking more than is medically safe when you:    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

When you are drinking too much - tips for cutting back

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000503.htm

# When you are drinking too much - tips for cutting back

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Health care providers consider you to be drinking more than is medically safe
when you:

    * Are a man who has 15 or more drinks a week, or you often have 5 or more drinks at a time
    * Are a woman who has 8 or more drinks a week, or you often have 4 or more drinks at a time

## Ways to Cut Back

Watch your drinking patterns more closely and plan ahead. This can help you
cut back on your alcohol use. Keep track of how much you drink and set goals.

    * Track how many drinks you have during the week on a small card in your wallet, on your calendar, or on your phone.
    * Know how much alcohol is in a standard drink -- a 12 ounces (oz), or 355 milliliters (mL) can or bottle of beer, a 5 oz (148 mL) of wine, a wine cooler, 1 cocktail, or 1 shot of hard liquor. 

When you are drinking:

    * Pace yourself. Have no more than 1 alcoholic drink per hour. Sip on water, soda, or juice in between alcoholic drinks.
    * Eat something before drinking and in between drinks. 

To control how much you drink:

    * Stay away from people or places that influence you to drink when you do not want to drink, or tempt you to drink more than you should.
    * Plan other activities that do not involve drinking for days when you have the urge to drink.
    * Keep alcohol out of your home.
    * Make a plan to handle your urges to drink. Remind yourself of why you do not want to drink, or talk to someone you trust.
    * Create a polite but firm way of refusing a drink when you are offered one. 

## Getting Help From Others

Make an appointment with your provider to talk about your drinking. You and
your provider can make a plan for you to either stop or cut back on your
drinking. Your provider will:

    * Explain how much alcohol is safe for you to drink.
    * Ask if you have often been feeling sad or nervous.
    * Help you figure out what else about your life may be causing you to drink too much.
    * Tell you where you can get more support for cutting back or quitting alcohol. 

Ask for support from people who may be willing to listen and help, such as a
spouse or significant other, or non-drinking friends.

Your place of work may have a employee assistance program (EAP) where you can
seek help without needing to tell anyone at work about your drinking.

Some other resources where you can seek information or support for alcohol
problems include:

    * Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) -- www.aa.org

## Alternative Names

Alcohol - drinking too much; Alcohol use disorder - drinking too much; Alcohol
abuse - drinking too much; Risky drinking - cutting back

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Fact sheets: alcohol use
and your health. www.cdc.gov/alcohol/fact-sheets/alcohol-use.htm. Updated
January 3, 2018. Accessed February 11, 2018.

Moyer VA; Preventive Services Task Force. Screening and behavioral counseling
interventions in primary care to reduce alcohol misuse: U.S. preventative
services task force recommendation statement. _Ann Intern Med_.
2013;159(3):210-218. PMID: 23698791 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23698791.

National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism website. Alcohol use
disorder. www.niaaa.nih.gov/alcohol-health/overview-alcohol-
consumption/alcohol-use-disorders. Accessed February 11, 2018.

O'Connor PG. Alcohol use disorders. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 33.

Sherin K, Seikel S, Hale S. Alcohol use disorders. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP,
eds. _Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 48.

## Review Date 1/14/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. 07-09-19:
Editorial update.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Alcohol
    * Alcohol Use Disorder (AUD)

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

