Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000714.htm    
                                Description: Alcoholic neuropathy is damage to the nerves that results from excessive drinking of alcohol.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Alcoholic neuropathy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000714.htm

# Alcoholic neuropathy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Alcoholic neuropathy is damage to the nerves that results from excessive
drinking of alcohol.

## Causes

The exact cause of alcoholic neuropathy is unknown. It likely includes both a
direct poisoning of the nerve by the alcohol and the effect of poor nutrition
associated with alcoholism. Up to half of long-term heavy alcohol users
develop this condition.

In severe cases, nerves that regulate internal body functions (autonomic
nerves) may be involved.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of this condition include any of the following:

    * Numbness in the arms and legs
    * Abnormal sensations, such as "pins and needles"
    * Painful sensations in the arms and legs
    * Muscle problems, including weakness, cramps, aches, or spasms
    * Heat intolerance, especially after exercise
    * Erection problems (impotence)
    * Problems urinating, incontinence (leaking urine), feeling of incomplete bladder emptying, difficulty beginning to urinate
    * Constipation or diarrhea
    * Nausea, vomiting
    * Problems swallowing or talking
    * Unsteady gait (walking)

Changes in muscle strength or sensation usually occur on both sides of the
body and are more common in the legs than in the arms. Symptoms usually
develop gradually and become worse over time.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about symptoms.
An eye exam may show eye problems.

Excessive alcohol use often makes the body unable to use or store certain
vitamins and minerals. Blood tests will be ordered to check for a deficiency
(lack) of:

    * Thiamine (vitamin B1)
    * Pyridoxine (vitamin B6)
    * Pantothenic acid and biotin
    * Vitamin B12
    * Folic acid
    * Niacin (vitamin B3)
    * Vitamin A

Other tests may be ordered to rule out other possible causes of neuropathy.
Tests may include:

    * Electrolyte levels
    * Electromyography (EMG) to check the health of the muscles and the nerves that control the muscles
    * Liver and kidney function tests
    * Thyroid function tests
    * Levels of vitamins and minerals in the body
    * Nerve conduction tests to check how fast electrical signals move through a nerve
    * Nerve biopsy to remove a small piece of a nerve for examination
    * Upper GI and small bowel series
    * Esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) to examine the lining of the esophagus, stomach, and first part of the small intestine
    * Voiding cystourethrogram, an x-ray study of the bladder and urethra 

## Treatment

Once the alcohol problem has been addressed, treatment goals include:

    * Controlling symptoms
    * Maximizing ability to function independently
    * Preventing injury 

It is important to supplement the diet with vitamins, including thiamine and
folic acid.

Physical therapy and orthopedic appliances (such as splints) may be needed to
maintain muscle function and limb position.

Medicines may be needed to treat pain or uncomfortable sensations. People with
alcoholic neuropathy have alcohol use problems. They will be prescribed the
smallest dose of medicine needed to reduce symptoms. This may help prevent
drug dependence and other side effects of chronic use.

Positioning or the use of a bed frame that keeps the covers off the legs may
help reduce pain.

People with lightheadedness or dizziness when standing up (orthostatic
hypotension) may need to try several different treatments before finding one
that successfully reduces their symptoms. Treatments that may help include:

    * Wearing compression stockings
    * Eating extra salt
    * Sleeping with the head elevated
    * Using medicines 

Bladder problems may be treated with:

    * Manual expression of urine
    * Intermittent catheterization (male or female)
    * Medicines 

Impotence, diarrhea, constipation, or other symptoms are treated when
necessary. These symptoms often respond poorly to treatment in people with
alcoholic neuropathy.

It is important to protect body parts with reduced sensation from injury. This
may include:

    * Checking the temperature of bath water to prevent burns
    * Changing footwear
    * Frequently inspecting the feet and shoes to reduce injury caused by pressure or objects in the shoes
    * Guarding the extremities to prevent injury from pressure 

Alcohol must be stopped to prevent the damage from getting worse. Treatment
for alcoholism may include counseling, social support such as Alcoholics
Anonymous (AA), or medicines.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Damage to nerves from alcoholic neuropathy is usually permanent.Â It is likely
to get worse ifÂ the personÂ continues to use alcohol orÂ if nutritional
problems are notÂ corrected. Alcoholic neuropathyÂ is usually not life-
threatening, but itÂ can severely affect quality of life.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your provider if you have symptoms of alcoholic
neuropathy.

## Prevention

The only way to prevent alcoholic neuropathy is not to drink excessive amounts
of alcohol.

## Alternative Names

Neuropathy - alcoholic; Alcoholic polyneuropathy

## Images

    * ![Alcoholic neuropathy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17027t.jpg)Alcoholic neuropathy
    * ![Motor nerves](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17273t.jpg)Motor nerves
    * ![Autonomic Nerves](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19147t.jpg)Autonomic Nerves
    * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system

## References

Katirji B. Disorders of peripheral nerves. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J,
Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice._ 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 107.

Koppel BS. Nutritional and alcohol-relatedÂ neurologic disorders. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 416.

## Review Date 5/21/2019

Updated by: Alireza Minagar, MD, MBA, Professor, Department of Neurology, LSU
Health Sciences Center, Shreveport, LA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Alcoholism and Alcohol
Abuse](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Alcohol2_thumb.jpg)Alcohol Use Disorder
(AUD) _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

