Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000523.htm    
                                Description: Many people with drinking problems cannot tell when their drinking is out of control. You likely have a drinking problem when your body depends on alcohol to function and your drinking is causing problems    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Deciding to quit drinking alcohol

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000523.htm

# Deciding to quit drinking alcohol

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Many people with drinking problems cannot tell when their drinking is out of
control. You likely have a drinking problem when your body depends on alcohol
to function and your drinking is causing problems with your health, social
life, family, or job. Recognizing that you have a drinking problem is the
first step toward being alcohol free.

Talk with your health care provider about your drinking. Your provider can
help you find the best treatment.

## Are you Ready to Change?

You may have tried to stop drinking many times in the past and feel you have
no control over it. Or you may be thinking about stopping, but you're not sure
if you're ready to start.

Change takes place in stages and over time. The first stage is being ready to
change. Important stages that follow include:

    * Thinking about the pros and cons of stopping drinking
    * Making small changes and figuring out how to deal with the hard parts, such as what to do when you are in a situation where you would normally drink
    * Stopping drinking
    * Living an alcohol-free life 

Many people go back and forth through the stages of change several times
before the change really lasts. Plan ahead for what you will do if you slip
up. Try not to be discouraged.

## Lifestyle Changes That can Help

To help you control your drinking:

    * Stay away from people you normally drink with or places where you would drink.
    * Plan activities you enjoy that do not involve drinking.
    * Keep alcohol out of your home.
    * Follow your plan to handle your urges to drink. Remind yourself why you decided to quit.
    * Talk with someone you trust when you have the urge to drink.
    * Create a polite but firm way of refusing a drink when you are offered one. 

## Getting Help From Others

After talking about your drinking with your provider or an alcohol counselor,
you will likely be referred to an alcohol support group or recovery program.
These programs:

    * Teach people about alcohol use and its effects
    * Offer counseling and support about how to stay away from alcohol
    * Provide a space where you can talk with others who have drinking problems 

You can also seek help and support from:

    * Trusted family members and friends who do not drink.
    * Your place of work, which may have an employee assistance program (EAP). An EAP can help employees with personal issues such as alcohol use.
    * Support groups such as Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) -- www.aa.org. 

## Alcohol Withdrawal

You may be at risk for symptoms of alcohol withdrawal if you stop drinking
suddenly. If you are at risk, you will likely need to be under medical care
while you stop drinking. Discuss this with your provider or alcohol counselor.

## Alternative Names

Alcohol use disorder - quitting drinking; Alcohol abuse - quitting drinking;
Quitting drinking; Quitting alcohol; Alcoholism - deciding to quit

## References

American Psychiatric Association. _Diagnostic and statistical manual of mental
disorders_. 5th ed. Arlington, VA: American Psychiatric Association, 2013.

Moyer VA; US Preventive Services Task Force. Screening and behavioral
counseling interventions in primary care to reduce alcohol misuse: US
Preventative Services Task Force recommendation statement. _Ann Intern Med_.
2013;159:210-218. PMID: 23698791 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23698791.

National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism website. Alcohol use
disorder. www.niaaa.nih.gov/alcohol-health/overview-alcohol-
consumption/alcohol-use-disorders. April 16, 2018.

National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism website. Alcohol & your
health. www.niaaa.nih.gov/alcohol-health. Accessed April 16, 2018.

O'Connor PG. Alcohol use disorders. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 33.

Sherin K, Seikel S, Hale S. Alcohol use disorders. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP,
eds. _Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 48.

## Review Date 1/14/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Alcohol
    * Alcohol Use Disorder (AUD)
    * Alcohol Use Disorder (AUD) Treatment

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

