Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000856.htm    
                                Description: We know much more about the effects of alcohol today than in the past. Yet, myths remain about drinking and drinking problems. Learn the facts about alcohol use so you can make healthy decisions.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Myths about drinking alcohol

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000856.htm

# Myths about drinking alcohol

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

We know much more about the effects of alcohol today than in the past. Yet,
myths remain about drinking and drinking problems. Learn the facts about
alcohol use so you can make healthy decisions.

## Myth #1: I Do Not Have a Problem Because I Can Hold My Liquor

Being able to have a few drinks without feeling any effects may seem like a
good thing. In fact, if you need to drink increasing amounts of alcohol to
feel an effect, it could be a sign you have a problem with alcohol.

## Myth #2: I Only Drink on Weekends

You do not need to drink every day to have a problem with alcohol. Heavy
drinking is defined by how much alcohol you have in a day or in a week.

You may be at risk if you:

    * Are a man and have more than 4 drinks a day or more than 14 drinks in a week.
    * Are a woman and have more than 3 drinks a day or more than 7 drinks in a week. 

Drinking this amount or more is considered heavy drinking. This is true even
if you only do it on weekends. Heavy drinking can put you at risk for health
problems such as heart disease, stroke, liver disease, sleep problems, and
some types of cancer.

## Myth #3: I Am Too Old to Have a Drinking Problem

You may think that drinking problems have to start early in life. In fact,
some people develop problems with drinking at a later age.

One reason is that people become more sensitive to alcohol as they get older.
Or they may take medicines that make the effects of alcohol stronger. Some
older adults may start to drink more because they are bored or feel lonely or
depressed.

Even if you never drank that much when you were young, you can have problems
with drinking as you get older.

What is a healthy range of drinking for men and women over age 65 years?
Experts recommend no more than 3 drinks in a single day or no more than a
total of 7 drinks a week. A drink is defined as 12 fluid ounces (355 mL) of
beer, 5 fluid ounces (148 mL) of wine, or 1Â½ fluid ounces (45 mL) of liquor.

## Myth #4: I Do Not Have a Problem Because I Only Drink Wine and Beer

Problem drinking is not about what you drink, but how it affects your life.
For example, if you can answer "yes" to any of the two following statements,
drinking may be causing you problems.

    * There are times when you drink more or longer than you planned to.
    * You have not been able to cut down or stop drinking on your own, even though you have tried or you want to.
    * You spend a lot of time drinking, being sick from drinking, or getting over the effects of drinking.
    * Your urge to drink is so strong, you cannot think about anything else.
    * As a result of drinking, you do not do what you are expected to do at home, work, or school. Or, you keep getting sick because of drinking.
    * You continue to drink, even though alcohol is causing problems with your family or friends.
    * You spend less time on or no longer take part in activities that used to be important or that you enjoyed. Instead, you use that time to drink.
    * Your drinking has led to situations that you or someone else could have been injured, such as driving while drunk or having unsafe sex.
    * Your drinking makes you anxious, depressed, forgetful, or causes other health problems, but you keep drinking.
    * You need to drink more than you did to get the same effect from alcohol. Or, the number of drinks you are used to having now have less effect than before.
    * When the effects of alcohol wear off, you have symptoms of withdrawal. These include, tremors, sweating, nausea, or insomnia. You may even have had a seizure or hallucinations (sensing things that are not there).

## Myth #5: Drinking is a Good Way to Take the Edge Off My Chronic Pain

People with long-term (chronic) pain sometimes use alcohol to help manage
pain. There are several reasons why this may not be a good choice.

    * Alcohol and pain relievers do not mix. Drinking while taking pain relievers may increase your risk of liver problems, stomach bleeding, or other problems.
    * It increases your risk for alcohol problems. Most people need to drink more than a moderate amount to relieve pain. Also, as you develop a tolerance for alcohol, you will need to drink more to get the same pain relief. Drinking at that level increases your risk for alcohol problems.
    * Long-term (chronic) alcohol use can increase pain. If you have withdrawal symptoms from alcohol, you may feel more sensitive to pain. Also, heavy drinking over a long time can actually cause a certain type of nerve pain.

## Myth #6: If I Drink Too Much, Coffee Will Sober Me Up

If you are drunk, nothing will help make you sober except time. Your body
needs time to break down the alcohol in your system. The caffeine in coffee
may help you stay awake. However, it will not improve your coordination or
decision-making skills. These can be impaired for several hours after you stop
drinking. This is why it is never safe to drive after you have been drinking,
no matter how many cups of coffee you have.

## References

National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism website. Overview of
alcohol consumption. www.niaaa.nih.gov/alcohol-health/overview-alcohol-
consumption. Accessed August 2, 2018.

National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism website. Rethinking
drinking.
pubs.niaaa.nih.gov/publications/RethinkingDrinking/Rethinking_Drinking.pdf.
Updated May 2016. Accessed August 2, 2018.

National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism website. Using alcohol to
relieve your pain: what are the risks?
pubs.niaaa.nih.gov/publications/PainFactsheet/Pain_Alcohol.pdf. Updated July
2013. Accessed August 2, 2018.

O'Connor PG. Alcohol use disorders. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 33.

## Review Date 7/8/2018

Updated by: Ryan James Kimmel, MD, Medical Director of Hospital Psychiatry at
the University of Washington Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Alcohol Use Disorder (AUD)

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

