Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000815.htm    
                                Description: If you think a loved one has a drinking problem, you may want to help but don    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Helping a loved one with a drinking problem

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000815.htm

# Helping a loved one with a drinking problem

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

If you think a loved one has a drinking problem, you may want to help but
don't know how. You may not be sure it really is a drinking problem. Or, you
might be afraid that your loved one will get angry or upset if you say
something.

If you are concerned, DO NOT wait to bring it up. The problem is likely to get
worse, not better, if you wait.

## When is Drinking a Problem?

Drinking problems are not measured by the amount someone drinks or how often
they drink. What matters the most is how drinking affects the person's life.
Your loved one may have a drinking problem if they:

    * Regularly drink more than they intended
    * Cannot cut back on drinking
    * Spend a lot of time getting alcohol, drinking alcohol, or recovering from the effects of alcohol
    * Have trouble at work, home, or school because of alcohol use
    * Have trouble with relationships because of drinking
    * Miss important work, school, or social activities because of alcohol use 

## Learn About Alcohol Use

Start by learning all you can about alcohol use. You can read books, look
online, or ask your health care provider for information. The more you know,
the more information you'll have ready to help your loved one.

## Get Support for Yourself

Alcohol use takes a toll on everyone. You can't help your loved one if you
don't take care of yourself and get support.

    * Make your family's health and safety your top priority.
    * Ask other family members or friends for support. Be honest about your feelings and tell them what they can do to help.
    * Consider joining a group that supports family and friends of people with alcohol problems, such as Al-Anon. In these groups, you can talk openly about your struggles and learn from people who have been in your situation.
    * Consider seeking help from a counselor or therapist who deals with alcohol problems. Even though your loved one may be the drinker, drinking affects the entire family. 

## What Not to Do

It is not easy to be involved with a person who has a drinking problem. It
takes a lot of patience and love. You also need to set certain boundaries for
your own actions so you don't encourage the person's behavior or let it affect
you.

    * Don't lie or make excuses for your loved one's drinking.
    * Don't take on responsibilities for your loved one. This will only help the person avoid consequences for not doing the things they should.
    * Don't drink with your loved one.
    * Don't argue when your loved one has been drinking.
    * DO NOT feel guilty. You did not cause your loved one to drink, and you cannot control it.

## How to Talk About Alcohol Use

It's not easy, but it's important to talk with your loved one about the
drinking. Find a time to talk when the person is not drinking.

These tips may help make the conversation go more smoothly:

    * Express your feelings about your loved one's drinking. Try to use "I" statements. This helps keep the focus on how the drinking affects you.
    * Try to stick with the facts about your loved one's alcohol use, such as specific behaviors that have you worried.
    * Explain that you're concerned for your loved one's health.
    * Try not to use labels like "alcoholic" when talking about the problem.
    * Don't preach or lecture.
    * Don't try to use guilt or bribe the person to stop drinking.
    * Don't threaten or plead.
    * Don't expect your loved one to get better without help.
    * Offer to go with the person to see a doctor or addiction counselor.

Remember, you can't force your loved one to get help, but you can offer your
support.

## Getting Help

It may take a few tries and several conversations before your loved one agrees
to get help. There are many places to get help for an alcohol problem. You can
start with your family provider. The provider may recommend an addiction
treatment program or specialist. You can also check with your local hospital,
insurance plan, or employee assistance program (EAP).

You can play an important role by continuing to show your support. Offer to go
with your loved one to doctor appointments or meetings. Ask what else you can
do, such as not drinking when you are together and keeping alcohol out of the
house.

## When to Call Your Doctor

If you feel that your relationship with this person is becoming dangerous or
is threatening your health, get help for yourself right away. Talk with your
provider or a counselor.

## Alternative Names

Alcohol abuse - helping a loved one; Alcohol use - helping a loved one

## References

Moyer VA; Preventive Services Task Force. Screening and behavioral counseling
interventions in primary care to reduce alcohol misuse: U.S. preventive
services task force recommendation statement. _Ann Intern Med_.
2013;159(3):210-218. PMID: 23698791 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23698791.

O'Connor PG. Alcohol use disorders. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 33.

## Review Date 7/8/2018

Updated by: Ryan James Kimmel, MD, Medical Director of Hospital Psychiatry at
the University of Washington Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. 07-09-19: Editorial update.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Alcohol Use Disorder (AUD)

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

