Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000857.htm    
                                Description: Deciding to quit drinking alcohol is a big step. You may have tried to quit in the past and are ready to try again. You may also be trying for the first time and are not sure where to start.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

How to stop drinking

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000857.htm

# How to stop drinking

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Deciding to quit drinking alcohol is a big step. You may have tried to quit in
the past and are ready to try again. You may also be trying for the first time
and are not sure where to start.

While quitting alcohol is not easy, it helps to make a plan to quit and ask
for the support of family and friends before you quit. Here are some tips to
help get you started.

## Decide how you Will Quit

There are a number of tools and resources to help you quit. You can try one
option or combine them. Talk with your health care provider about which
options may be best for you.

 **Join a support group.** Many people have quit alcohol by talking with
others who face the same challenges. Some groups have online forums and chats
as well as in-person meetings. Try a couple of groups and see what is most
comfortable for you.

    * Al-Anon -- al-anon.org
    * Alcoholics Anonymous -- www.aa.org
    * SMART Recovery -- www.smartrecovery.org

 **Work with an addiction counselor.** Your provider can help you find a
mental health specialist trained in working with people who have problems with
alcohol.

 **Ask about medicines.** Several medicines can help you quit drinking by
getting rid of the craving for alcohol and blocking its effects. Ask your
provider if one may be a good choice for you.

 **Treatment programs.** If you have been a heavy drinker for a long time, you
may need a more intensive program. Ask your provider to recommend an alcohol
treatment program for you.

If you have withdrawal symptoms, such as trembling hands, when you go without
alcohol, you should not try to quit on your own. It may be life threatening.
Work with your provider to find a safe way to quit.

## Make a Plan

Take some time to make a plan for quitting. Start by writing down:

    * The date you will stop drinking
    * Your most important reasons for deciding to quit
    * The strategies you will use to quit
    * People who can help you
    * Roadblocks to staying sober and how you will overcome them 

Once you have created your plan, keep it somewhere handy, so you can look at
it if you need help staying on track.

## Gather Support

Tell trusted family and friends about your decision and ask for their support
in helping you stay sober. For example, you can ask them not to offer you
alcohol and not to drink around you. You can also ask them to do activities
with you that do not involve alcohol. Try to spend the most time with your
family and friends who do not drink.

## Know Your Triggers

Triggers are situations, places or people that make you want to have a drink.
Make a list of your triggers. Try to avoid the triggers you can, such as going
to a bar or hanging out with people who drink. For triggers you cannot avoid,
make a plan to deal with them. Some ideas include:

    * Talk to someone. Ask a friend or family member to be on-call when you face a situation that makes you want to drink.
    * Look at your quit plan. This will help remind you of the reasons you wanted to quit in the first place.
    * Distract yourself with something else, such as texting a friend, taking a walk, reading, eating a healthy snack, meditating, lifting weights, or doing a hobby.
    * Accept the urge. This does not mean you should give into the urge. Just understand that it is normal and, most important, it will pass.
    * If a situation becomes too difficult, leave. DO NOT feel like you have to stick it out to test your willpower. 

## Learn to say no

At some point you will be offered a drink. It is a good idea to plan ahead for
how you will deal with this. Here are some tips that can help:

    * Make eye contact with the person and say "No, thanks" or another short, direct response.
    * DO NOT hesitate or give a long-winded answer.
    * Ask a friend to role play with you, so you are prepared.
    * Ask for a non-alcoholic drink instead.

## Do not Give up

Changing habits takes hard work. You may not succeed the first time you try to
quit. If you slip up and drink, DO NOT give up. Learn from each attempt and
try again. Think of a setback as just a bump in the road to recovery.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if you:

    * Feel depressed or anxious for more than a short time
    * Have thoughts of suicide
    * Have severe withdrawal symptoms, such as severe vomiting, hallucinations, confusion, fever, or convulsions

## Alternative Names

Alcohol abuse - how to stop; Alcohol use - how to stop; Alcoholism - how to
stop

## References

National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism website. Rethinking
drinking: Alcohol and your health.
pubs.niaaa.nih.gov/publications/RethinkingDrinking/Rethinking_Drinking.pdf.
Updated May 2016. Accessed August 2, 2018.

O'Connor PG. Alcohol use disorders. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 33.

Swift RM, Aston ER. Pharmacotherapy for alcohol use disorder: current and
emerging therapies. _Harv Rev Psychiatry_. 2015;23(2):122-133. PMID: 25747925
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25747925.

## Review Date 7/8/2018

Updated by: Ryan James Kimmel, MD, Medical Director of Hospital Psychiatry at
the University of Washington Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Alcohol Use Disorder (AUD)
    * Alcohol Use Disorder (AUD) Treatment

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

