Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000764.htm    
                                Description: Alcohol withdrawal refers to symptoms that may occur when a person who has been drinking too much alcohol on a regular basis suddenly stops drinking alcohol.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Alcohol withdrawal

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000764.htm

# Alcohol withdrawal

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Alcohol withdrawal refers to symptoms that may occur when a person who has
been drinking too much alcohol on a regular basis suddenly stops drinking
alcohol.

## Causes

Alcohol withdrawal occurs most often in adults. But, it may occur in teenagers
or children.

The more you drink regularly, the more likely you are to develop alcohol
withdrawal symptoms when you stop drinking.

You may have more severe withdrawal symptoms if you have certain other medical
problems.

## Symptoms

Alcohol withdrawal symptoms usually occur within 8 hours after the last drink,
but can occur days later. Symptoms usually peak by 24 to 72 hours, but may go
on for weeks.

Common symptoms include:

    * Anxiety or nervousness
    * Depression
    * Fatigue
    * Irritability
    * Jumpiness or shakiness
    * Mood swings
    * Nightmares
    * Not thinking clearly 

Other symptoms may include:

    * Sweating, clammy skin
    * Enlarged (dilated) pupils
    * Headache
    * Insomnia (sleeping difficulty)
    * Loss of appetite
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Pallor
    * Rapid heart rate
    * Tremor of the hands or other body parts 

A severe form of alcohol withdrawal called delirium tremens can cause:

    * Agitation
    * Fever
    * Seeing or feeling things that aren't there (hallucinations)
    * Seizures
    * Severe confusion 

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will perform a physical exam. This may reveal:

    * Abnormal eye movements
    * Abnormal heart rhythms
    * Dehydration (not enough fluids in the body)
    * Fever
    * Rapid breathing
    * Rapid heart rate
    * Shaky hands 

Blood and urine tests, including a toxicology screen, may be done.

## Treatment

The goal of treatment includes:

    * Reducing withdrawal symptoms
    * Preventing complications of alcohol use
    * Therapy to get you to stop drinking (abstinence) 

INPATIENT TREATMENT

People with moderate-to-severe symptoms of alcohol withdrawal may need
inpatient treatment at a hospital or other facility that treats alcohol
withdrawal. You will be watched closely for hallucinations and other signs of
delirium tremens.

Treatment may include:

    * Monitoring of blood pressure, body temperature, heart rate, and blood levels of different chemicals in the body
    * Fluids or medicines given through a vein (by IV)
    * Sedation using medicines until withdrawal is complete 

OUTPATIENT TREATMENT

If you have mild-to-moderate alcohol withdrawal symptoms, you can often be
treated in an outpatient setting. During this process, you will need someone
who can stay with and keep an eye on you. You will likely need to make daily
visits to your provider until you are stable.

Treatment usually includes:

    * Sedative drugs to help ease withdrawal symptoms
    * Blood tests
    * Patient and family counseling to discuss the long-term issue of alcoholism
    * Testing and treatment for other medical problems linked to alcohol use 

It is important to go to a living situation that helps support you in staying
sober. Some areas have housing options that provide a supportive environment
for those trying to stay sober.

Permanent and life-long abstinence from alcohol is the best treatment for
those who have gone through withdrawal.

## Support Groups

The following organizations are good resources for information on alcoholism:

    * Alcoholics Anonymous -- www.aa.org
    * Al-Anon Family Groups/Al-Anon/Alateen -- al-anon.org
    * National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism -- www.niaaa.nih.gov
    * Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration -- www.samhsa.gov/atod/alcohol

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well a person does depends on the amount of organ damage and whether the
person can stop drinking completely. Alcohol withdrawal may range from a mild
and uncomfortable disorder to a serious, life-threatening condition.

Symptoms such as sleep changes, rapid changes in mood, and fatigue may last
for months. People who continue to drink a lot may develop health problems
such as liver, heart, and nervous system disease.

Most people who go through alcohol withdrawal make a full recovery. But, death
is possible, especially if delirium tremens occurs.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Alcohol withdrawal is a serious condition that may rapidly become life
threatening.

Call your provider or go the emergency room if you think you might be in
alcohol withdrawal, especially if you were using alcohol often and recently
stopped. Call for an appointment with your provider if symptoms persist after
treatment.

Go to the emergency room or call the local emergency number (such as 911) if
seizures, fever, severe confusion, hallucinations, or irregular heartbeats
occur.

If you go to the hospital for another reason, tell the providers if you've
been drinking heavily so they can monitor you for symptoms of alcohol
withdrawal.

## Prevention

Reduce or avoid alcohol. If you have a drinking problem, you should stop
alcohol completely.

## Alternative Names

Detoxification - alcohol; Detox - alcohol

## References

Finnell JT. Alcohol-related disease. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 142.

Kelly JF, Renner JA. Alcohol-related disorders. In: Stern TA, Fava M, Wilens
TE, Rosenbaum JF, eds. _Massachusetts General Hospital Comprehensive Clinical
Psychiatry_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 26.

Mirijello A, D'Angelo C, Ferrulli A, et al. Identification and management of
alcohol withdrawal syndrome. _Drugs_. 2015;75(4):353-365. PMID: 25666543
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25666543.

O'Connor PG. Alcohol use disorders. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 33.

## Review Date 1/10/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Alcoholism and Alcohol
Abuse](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Alcohol2_thumb.jpg)Alcohol Use Disorder
(AUD) _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

