Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000494.htm    
                                Description: Beer, wine, and liquor all contain alcohol. If you are drinking any of these, you are using alcohol. Your drinking patterns may vary, depending on who you are with and what you are doing.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Health risks of alcohol use

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000494.htm

# Health risks of alcohol use

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Beer, wine, and liquor all contain alcohol. If you are drinking any of these,
you are using alcohol. Your drinking patterns may vary, depending on who you
are with and what you are doing.

Drinking an excessive amount of alcohol can put you at risk for alcohol-
related problems if:

    * You are a man who has 15 or more drinks a week, or often have 5 or more drinks at a time.
    * You are a woman who has 8 or more drinks a week, or often have 4 or more drinks at a time. 

One drink is defined as 12 ounces (355 milliliters, mL) of beer, 5 ounces (148
mL) of wine, or a 1 1/2-ounce (44 mL) shot of liquor.

## Alcohol Use and Your Health

Long-term excessive alcohol use increases your chances of:

    * Bleeding from the stomach or esophagus (the tube the food travels through from your mouth to your stomach).
    * Swelling and damage to the pancreas. Your pancreas produces substances your body needs to work well.
    * Damage to the liver. When severe, liver damage often leads to death.
    * Poor nutrition.
    * Cancer of the esophagus, liver, colon, head and neck, breasts, and other areas. 

Excessive drinking can also:

    * Make it harder to control high blood pressure with medicines if you already have high blood pressure.
    * Lead to heart problems in some people. 

Alcohol can affect your thinking and judgment each time you drink. Long-term
excessive alcohol use damages brain cells. This can lead to lasting damage to
your memory, thinking, and the way you behave.

Damage to nerves from alcohol use can cause many problems, including:

    * Numbness or a painful "pins and needles" feeling in your arms or legs.
    * Problems with erections in men.
    * Leaking urine or having a hard time passing urine. 

Drinking during pregnancy can harm the growing baby. Severe birth defects or
fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS) may occur.

## How Alcohol Use Can Affect Your Life

People often drink to make themselves feel better or to block feelings of
sadness, depression, nervousness, or worry. But alcohol can:

    * Make these problems worse over time.
    * Cause sleep problems or make them worse.
    * Increase the risk for suicide. 

Families are often affected when someone in the home uses alcohol. Violence
and conflict in the home is much more likely when a family member is abusing
alcohol. Children who grow up in a home where alcohol abuse is present are
more likely to:

    * Do poorly in school.
    * Be depressed and have problems with anxiety and low self-esteem.
    * Have marriages that end in divorce. 

Drinking too much alcohol even once can harm you or others. It can lead to any
of the following:

    * Car accidents
    * Risky sex habits, which may lead to unplanned or unwanted pregnancy, and sexually transmitted infections (STIs)
    * Falls, drowning, and other accidents
    * Suicide
    * Violence, sexual assault or rape,Â and homicide 

## What You Can Do

First, ask yourself what type of drinker you are?

Even if you are a responsible drinker, drinking too much just once can be
harmful.

Be aware of your drinking patterns. Learn ways to cut back on drinking.

If you cannot control your drinking or if your drinking is becoming harmful to
yourself or others, seek help from:

    * Your health care provider
    * Support and self-help groups for people who have drinking problems 

## Alternative Names

Alcoholism - risks; Alcohol abuse - risks; Alcohol dependence - risks; Risky
drinking

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Fact sheets: alcohol use
and your health. www.cdc.gov/alcohol/fact-sheets/alcohol-use.htm. Updated
January 3, 2018. Accessed February 11, 2018.

Moyer VA; U.S. Preventive Services Task Force. Screening and behavioral
counseling interventions in primary care to reduce alcohol misuse: U.S.
Preventative Services Task Force recommendation statement. _Ann Intern Med_.
2013;159(3):210-218. PMID: 23698791 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23698791.

National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism website. Alcohol use
disorder. www.niaaa.nih.gov/alcohol-health/overview-alcohol-
consumption/alcohol-use-disorders. Accessed February 11, 2018.

O'Connor PG. Alcohol use disorders. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 33.

Sherin K, Seikel S, Hale S. Alcohol use disorders. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP,
eds. _Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 48.

## Review Date 1/14/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Alcohol
    * Alcohol Use Disorder (AUD)

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

