Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002149.htm    
                                Description: Substance use harms the body in two ways:    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Substance use recovery and diet

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002149.htm

# Substance use recovery and diet

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Substance use harms the body in two ways:

    * The substance itself affects the body.
    * It causes negative lifestyle changes, such as irregular eating and poor diet.

Proper nutrition can help the healing process. Nutrients supply the body with
energy. They provide substances to build and maintain healthy organs and fight
off infection.

## Information

Recovery from substance use also affects the body in different ways, including
metabolism (processing energy), organ function, and mental well-being.

The impact of different drugs on nutrition is described below.

OPIATES

Opiates (including codeine, oxycodone, heroin, and morphine) affect the
gastrointestinal system. Constipation is a very common symptom of substance
use. Symptoms that are common during withdrawal include:

    * Diarrhea
    * Nausea and vomiting 

These symptoms may lead to a lack of enough nutrients and an imbalance of
electrolytes (such as sodium, potassium, and chloride).

Eating balanced meals may make these symptoms less severe (however, eating can
be difficult, due to nausea). A high-fiber diet with plenty of complex
carbohydrates (such as whole grains, vegetables, peas, and beans) is
recommended.

ALCOHOL

Alcohol use is one of the major causes of nutritional deficiency in the United
States. The most common deficiencies are of the B vitamins (B1, B6, and folic
acid). A lack of these nutrients causes anemia and nervous system (neurologic)
problems. For example, a disease called Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome ("wet
brain") occurs when heavy alcohol use causes a lack of vitamin B1.

Alcohol use also damages two major organs involved in metabolism and
nutrition: the liver and the pancreas. The liver removes toxins from harmful
substances. The pancreas regulates blood sugar and the absorption of fat.
Damage to these two organs results in an imbalance of fluids, calories,
protein, and electrolytes.

Other complications include:

    * Diabetes
    * High blood pressure
    * Permanent liver damage (or cirrhosis)
    * Seizures
    * Severe malnutrition
    * Shortened life expectancy 

A woman's poor diet when pregnant, especially if she drinks alcohol, can harm
the baby's growth and development in the womb. Infants who were exposed to
alcohol while in the womb often have physical and mental problems. The alcohol
affects the growing baby by crossing the placenta. After birth, the baby may
have withdrawal symptoms.

Laboratory tests for protein, iron, and electrolytes may be needed to
determine if there is liver disease in addition to the alcohol problem. Women
who drink heavily are at high risk of osteoporosis and may need to take
calcium supplements.

STIMULANTS

Stimulant use (such as crack, cocaine, and methamphetamine) reduces appetite,
and leads to weight loss and poor nutrition. Users of these drugs may stay up
for days at a time. They may be dehydrated and have electrolyte imbalances
during these episodes. Returning to a normal diet can be hard if a person has
lost a lot of weight.

Memory problems, which may be permanent, are a complication of long-term
stimulant use.

MARIJUANA

Marijuana can increase appetite. Some long-term users may be overweight and
need to cut back on fat, sugar, and total calories.

NUTRITION AND PSYCHOLOGICAL ASPECTS OF SUBSTANCE USE

When a person feels better, they are less likely to start using alcohol and
drugs again. Because balanced nutrition helps improve mood and health, it is
important to encourage a healthy diet in a person recovering from alcohol and
other drug problems.

But someone who has just given up an important source of pleasure may not be
ready to make other drastic lifestyle changes. So, it is more important that
the person avoid returning to substance use than sticking with a strict diet.

GUIDELINES

    * Stick to regular mealtimes.
    * Eat foods that are low in fat.
    * Get more protein, complex carbohydrates, and dietary fiber.
    * Vitamin and mineral supplements may be helpful during recovery (this may include B-complex, zinc, and vitamins A and C).Â 

A person with substance use is more likely to relapse when they have poor
eating habits. This is why regular meals are important. Drug and alcohol
addiction causes a person to forget what it is like to be hungry, and instead
think of this feeling as a drug craving. The person should be encouraged to
think that they may be hungry when cravings become strong.

During recovery from substance use, dehydration is common. It is important to
get enough fluids during and in between meals. Appetite usually returns during
recovery. A person in recovery is often more likely to overeat, particularly
if they were taking stimulants. It is important to eat healthy meals and
snacks and avoid high-calorie foods with low nutrition, such as sweets.

The following tips can help improve the odds of a lasting and healthy
recovery:

    * Eat nutritious meals and snacks.
    * Get physical activity and enough rest.
    * Reduce caffeine and stop smoking, if possible.
    * Seek help from counselors or support groups on a regular basis.
    * Take vitamin and mineral supplements if recommended by the health care provider. 

## Alternative Names

Substance use recovery and diet; Nutrition and substance use

## References

Jeynes KD, Gibson EL. The importance of nutrition in aiding recovery from
substance use disorders: a review. _Drug Alcohol Depend._ 2017;179:229-239.
PMID: 28806640 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28806640.

Kowalchuk A, Reed BC. Substance use disorders. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP, eds.
_Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 50.

Weiss RD. Drugs of abuse. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 34.

## Review Date 3/26/2018

Updated by: Fred K. Berger, MD, addiction and forensic psychiatrist, Scripps
Memorial Hospital, La Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team. Editorial update 07/03/2018.

![Alcoholism and Alcohol
Abuse](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Alcohol2_thumb.jpg)Alcohol Use Disorder
(AUD) _Read more_

![Drug Abuse](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DrugAbuse2_thumb.jpg)Drug Use and
Addiction _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

