Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003652.htm    
                                Description: Prothrombin time (PT) is a blood test that measures the time it takes for the liquid portion (plasma) of your blood to clot.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Prothrombin time (PT)

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003652.htm

# Prothrombin time (PT)

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Prothrombin time (PT) is a blood test that measures the time it takes for the
liquid portion (plasma) of your blood to clot.

A related blood test is partial thromboplastin time (PTT).

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed. If you are taking blood-thinning medicines, you will
be watched for signs of bleeding.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Certain medicines can change blood test results.

    * Your health care provider will tell you if you need to stop taking any medicines before you have this test. This may include aspirin, heparin, antihistamines, and vitamin C.
    * DO NOT stop or change your medicines without talking to your provider first.

Also tell your provider if you're taking any herbal remedies.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or slight bruising. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

The most common reason to perform this test is to monitor your levels when you
are taking a blood-thinning medicine called warfarin. You are likely taking
this medicine to prevent blood clots.

Your provider will check your PT regularly.

You may also need this test to:

    * Find the cause of abnormal bleeding or bruising
    * Check how well your liver is working
    * Look for signs of a blood clotting or bleeding disorder

## Normal Results

PT is measured in seconds. Most of the time, results are given as what is
called INR (international normalized ratio).

If you are not taking blood thinning medicines, such as warfarin, the normal
range for your PT results is:

    * 11 to 13.5 seconds
    * INR of 0.8 to 1.1 

If you are taking warfarin to prevent blood clots, your provider will most
likely choose to keep your INR between 2.0 and 3.0.

Ask your provider what result is right for you.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your provider
about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

If you **are not** taking blood thinning medicines, such as warfarin, an INR
result above 1.1 means your blood is clotting more slowly than normal. This
may be due to:

    * Bleeding disorders, a group of conditions in which there is a problem with the body's blood clotting process.
    * Disorder in which the proteins that control blood clotting become over active (disseminated intravascular coagulation).
    * Liver disease.
    * Low level of vitamin K. 

If you **are** taking warfarin to prevent clots, your provider will most
likely choose to keep your INR between 2.0 and 3.0:

    * Depending on why you are taking the blood thinner, the desired level may be different.
    * Even when your INR stays between 2.0 and 3.0, you are more likely to have bleeding problems.
    * INR results higher than 3.0 may put you at even higher risk for bleeding.
    * INR results lower than 2.0 may put you at risk for developing a blood clot. 

A PT result that is too high or too low in someone who is taking warfarin
(Coumadin) may be due to:

    * The wrong dose of medicine
    * Drinking alcohol
    * Taking certain over-the-counter (OTC) medicines, vitamins, supplements, cold medicines, antibiotics, or other medicines
    * Eating food that changes the way the blood-thinning medicine works in your body 

Your provider will teach you about taking warfarin (Coumadin) the proper way.

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another, and from one side of the body to the
other. Obtaining a blood sample from some people may be more difficult than
from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

This test is often done on people who may have bleeding problems. Their risk
of bleeding is slightly higher than for people without bleeding problems.

## Alternative Names

PT; Pro-time; Anticoagulant-prothrombin time; Clotting time: protime; INR;
International normalized ratio

## Patient Instructions

    * Deep vein thrombosis - discharge

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Prothrombin time (PT) and international normalized
ratio (INR) - blood. In: Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and
Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:930-935.

Ortel TL. Antithrombotic therapy. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's
Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis,
MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 42.

## Review Date 1/29/2019

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Bleeding
Disorders _Read more_

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Blood Clots
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

