Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007620.htm    
                                Description: D-dimer tests are used to check for blood clotting problems. Blood clots can cause health problems, such as:    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

D-dimer test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007620.htm

# D-dimer test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

D-dimer tests are used to check for blood clotting problems. Blood clots can
cause health problems, such as:

    * Deep vein thrombosis (DVT)
    * Pulmonary embolism (PE)
    * Stroke
    * Disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC)

## How the Test is Performed

The D-dimer test is a blood test. You will need to get a blood sample drawn.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is necessary.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging sensation. Afterward, there may be some
throbbing or a slight bruise.

## Why the Test is Performed

Your health care provider may order a D-dimer test if you are showing symptoms
of blood clots, such as:

    * Swelling, pain, warmth, and changes in skin color of your leg
    * Sharp chest pain, trouble breathing, coughing up blood, and fast heart beat
    * Bleeding gums, nausea and vomiting, seizures, severe stomach and muscle pain, and decreased urine

Your provider may also use the D-dimer test to see if treatment for DIC is
working.

## Normal Results

A normal test is negative. This means that you probably do not have problems
with blood clotting.

If you are getting the D-dimer test to see if treatment is working for DIC, a
normal or decreasing level of D-dimer means the treatment is working.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A positive test means that you may be making blood clots. The test does not
tell where the clots are or why you are making clots. Your provider may order
other tests to see where clots are located.

A positive test may be caused by other factors, and you may not have any
clots. D-dimer levels can be positive due to:

    * Pregnancy
    * Liver disease
    * Recent surgery or trauma
    * High lipid or triglyceride levels
    * Heart disease
    * Being over 80 years old

This makes the test mostly useful when it is negative, when many of the above
causes can be ruled out.

## Risks

Veins vary in size from one person to another and from one side of the body to
the other. Obtaining a blood sample from some people may be more difficult
than from others.

Risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Bleeding from where the needle was inserted
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Hematoma (blood collecting under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

## Alternative Names

Fragment D-dimer; Fibrin degradation fragment; DVT - D-dimer; PE - D-dimer;
Deep vein thrombosis - D-dimer; Pulmonary embolism - D-dimer; Blood clot to
the lungs - D-dimer

## References

Goldhaber SZ. Pulmonary embolism. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL,
Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of
Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2019:chap 84.

Kline JA. Pulmonary embolism and deep vein thrombosis. In: Walls RM,
Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and
Clinical Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 78.

Siegal D, Lim W. Venous thromboembolism. In: Hoffman R, Benz EJ, Silberstein
LE, et al, eds. _Hematology: Basic Principles and Practice_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 142.

## Review Date 2/18/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Blood Clots
_Read more_

![Deep Vein
Thrombosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DeepVeinThrombosis_thumb.jpg)Deep
Vein Thrombosis _Read more_

![Pulmonary
Embolism](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PulmonaryEmbolism_thumb.jpg)Pulmonary
Embolism _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

