Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000558.htm    
                                Description: Congenital antithrombin III deficiency is a genetic disorder that causes the blood to clot more than normal.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Congenital antithrombin III deficiency

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000558.htm

# Congenital antithrombin III deficiency

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Congenital antithrombin III deficiency is a genetic disorder that causes the
blood to clot more than normal.

## Causes

Antithrombin III is a protein in the blood that blocks abnormal blood clots
from forming. It helps the body keep a healthy balance between bleeding and
clotting. Congenital antithrombin III deficiency is an inherited disease. It
occurs when a person receives one abnormal copy of the antithrombin III gene
from a parent with the disease.

The abnormal gene leads to a low level of the antithrombin III protein. This
low level of antithrombin III can cause abnormal blood clots (thrombi) that
can block blood flow and damage organs.

People with this condition will often have a blood clot at a young age. They
are also likely to have family members who have had a blood clotting problem.

## Symptoms

People will usually have symptoms of a blood clot. Blood clots in the arms or
legs usually cause swelling, redness, and pain. When a blood clot breaks off
from where it formed and travels to another part of the body, it is called a
thromboembolism. Symptoms depend on where the blood clot travels to. A common
place is the lung, where the clot can cause a cough, shortness of breath, pain
while taking deep breaths, chest pain, and even death. Blood clots that travel
to the brain can cause a stroke.

## Exams and Tests

A physical exam may show:

    * A swollen leg or arm
    * Decreased breath sounds in the lungs
    * A rapid heart rate

The health care provider can also order a blood testÂ to check if you have a
low level of antithrombin III.

## Treatment

A blood clot is treated with blood-thinning medicines (also called
anticoagulants). How long you need to take these drugs depends on how serious
the blood clot was and other factors. Discuss this with your provider.

## Support Groups

These resources can provide more information on congenital antithrombin III
deficiency:

    * National Organization for Rare Disorders -- rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/antithrombin-deficiency
    * NLM Genetics Home Reference -- ghr.nlm.nih.gov/condition/hereditary-antithrombin-deficiency

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most people have a good outcome if they stay on anticoagulant medicines.

## Possible Complications

Blood clots can cause death. Blood clots in the lungs are very dangerous.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

See your provider if you have symptoms of this condition.

## Prevention

Once a person is diagnosed with antithrombin III deficiency, all close family
members should be screened for this disorder. Blood thinning drugs can prevent
blood clots from forming and prevent complications from clotting.

## Alternative Names

Deficiency - antithrombin III - congenital; Antithrombin III deficiency -
congenital

## Images

    * ![Venous blood clot](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8984t.jpg)Venous blood clot

## References

Anderson JA, Hogg KE, Weitz JI. Hypercoagulable states. In: Hoffman R, Benz
EJ, Silberstein LE, et al, eds. _Hematology: Basic Principles and Practice_.
7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2018:chap 140.

Schafer AI. Thrombotic disorders: hypercoagulable states. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 176.

## Review Date 1/29/2019

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Blood Clots
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

