Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000573.htm    
                                Description: Disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC)Â is a serious disorder in which the proteins that control blood clotting become overactive.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC)

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000573.htm

# Disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC)

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC)Â is a serious disorder in which
the proteins that control blood clotting become overactive.

## Causes

When you are injured, proteins in the blood that form blood clots travel to
the injury site to help stop bleeding. If these proteins become abnormally
active throughout the body, you could develop DIC. The underlying cause is
usually due to inflammation, infection, or cancer.

In some cases of DIC, small blood clots form in the blood vessels. Some of
these clots can clog the vessels and cut off the normal blood supply to organs
such as the liver, brain, or kidneys. Lack of blood flow can damage and cause
major injury to the organs.

In other cases of DIC, the clotting proteins in your blood are consumed. When
this happens, you may have a high risk of serious bleeding, even from a minor
injury or without injury. You may also have bleeding that starts spontaneously
(on its own). The disease can also cause your healthy red blood cells to
fragment and break up when they travel through the small vessels that are
filled with clots.

Risk factors for DIC include:

    * Blood transfusion reaction
    * Cancer, especially certain types of leukemia
    * Inflammation of the pancreas (pancreatitis)
    * Infection in the blood, especially by bacteria or fungus
    * Liver disease
    * Pregnancy complications (such as placenta that is left behind after delivery)
    * Recent surgery or anesthesia
    * Severe tissue injury (as in burns and head injury)
    * Large hemangioma (a blood vessel that is not formed properly)

## Symptoms

Symptoms of DIC may include any of the following:

    * Bleeding, from many sites in the body
    * Blood clots
    * Bruising
    * Drop in blood pressure 
    * Shortness of breath  

    * Confusion, memory loss or change of behavior  

    * Fever  

## Exams and Tests

You may have any of the following tests:

    * Complete blood count with blood smear exam
    * Partial thromboplastin time (PTT)
    * Prothrombin time (PT)
    * Fibrinogen blood test
    * D-dimerÂ   

## Treatment

There is no specific treatment for DIC. The goal is to determine and treat the
underlying cause of DIC.

Supportive treatments may include:

    * Plasma transfusions to replace blood clotting factors if a large amount of bleeding is occurring.
    * Blood thinner medicine (heparin) to prevent blood clotting if a large amount of clotting is occurring.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Outcome depends on what is causing the disorder. DIC can be life threatening.

## Possible Complications

Complications from DIC may include:

    * Bleeding
    * Lack of blood flow to the arms, legs, or vital organs
    * Stroke

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Go to the emergency room or call 911 if you have bleeding that does not stop.

## Prevention

Get prompt treatment for conditions known to bring on this disorder.

## Alternative Names

Consumption coagulopathy; DIC

## Images

    * ![Blood clot formation](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19462t.jpg)Blood clot formation
    * ![Meningococcemia on the calves](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2883t.jpg)Meningococcemia on the calves
    * ![Blood clots](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9326t.jpg)Blood clots

## References

Napotilano M, Schmair AH, Kessler CM. Coagulation and fibrinolysis. In:
McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by
Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 39.

Schafer AI. Hemorrhagic disorders: disseminated intravascular coagulation,
liver failure, and vitamin K deficiency. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 175.

## Review Date 10/21/2017

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Bleeding
Disorders _Read more_

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Blood Clots
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

