Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000199.htm    
                                Description: Thrombophlebitis is a swollen or inflamed vein due to a blood clot. Superficial refers to veins just below the skin    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Superficial thrombophlebitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000199.htm

# Superficial thrombophlebitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Thrombophlebitis is a swollen or inflamed vein due to a blood clot.
Superficial refers to veins just below the skin's surface.

## Causes

This condition may occur after injury to the vein. It may also occur after
having medicines given into your veins. If you have a high risk for blood
clots, you may develop them for no apparent reason.

Risks for thrombophlebitis include:

    * Cancer or liver disease
    * Deep vein thrombosis
    * Disorders that involve increased blood clotting (may be inherited)
    * Infection
    * Pregnancy
    * Sitting or staying still for a prolonged period
    * Use of birth control pills
    * Swollen, twisted, and enlarged veins (varicose veins)

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

    * Skin redness, inflammation, tenderness, or pain along a vein just below the skin
    * Warmth of the area
    * Limb pain
    * Hardening of the vein 

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will diagnose this condition based mainly on the
appearance of the affected area. Frequent checks of the pulse, blood pressure,
temperature, skin condition, and blood flow may be needed.

UltrasoundÂ of the blood vesselsÂ helps confirm the condition.

If there are signs of an infection, skin or blood cultures may be done.

## Treatment

To reduce discomfort and swelling, your provider may recommend that you:

    * Wear support stockings, if your leg is affected.
    * Keep the affected leg or arm raised above heart level.
    * Apply a warm compress to the area.

If you have a catheter or IV line, it will likely be removed if it is the
cause of the thrombophlebitis.

Medicines called NSAIDs, such as ibuprofen,Â may be prescribed to reduce pain
and swelling.

If clots in the deeper veins are also present, your provider may prescribe
medicines to thin your blood. These medicines are called anticoagulants.
Antibiotics are prescribed if you have an infection.

Surgical removal (phlebectomy), stripping, or sclerotherapy of the affected
vein may be needed. These treat large varicose veins or to prevent
thrombophlebitis in high-risk people.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

This is often a short-term condition that does not cause complications.
Symptoms often go away in 1 to 2 weeks. Hardness of the vein may remain for
much longer.

## Possible Complications

Complications are rare. Possible problems may include the following:

    * Infections (cellulitis) 
    * Deep vein thrombosis

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your provider if you develop symptoms of this
condition.

Also call if you already have the condition and your symptoms worsen or do not
get better with treatment.

## Prevention

In the hospital, swollen or inflamed veins can be prevented by:

    * The nurse regularly changing the location of your IV line and removing it if swelling, redness, or pain develop
    * Walking and staying active as soon as possible after surgery or during a long-term illness

When possible, avoid keeping your legs and arms still for long periods. Move
your legs often or take a stroll during long plane trips or car trips. Try to
avoid sitting or lying down for long periods without getting up and moving
about.

## Alternative Names

Thrombophlebitis - superficial

## Images

    * ![Superficial thrombophlebitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18086t.jpg)Superficial thrombophlebitis
    * ![Superficial thrombophlebitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/3005t.jpg)Superficial thrombophlebitis

## References

Ginsberg JS. Peripheral venous disease. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 81.

Wasan S. Superficial thrombophlebitis and its management. In: Sidawy AN,
Perler BA, eds. _Rutherford's Vascular Surgery and Endovascular Therapy_. 9th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 150.

## Review Date 6/10/2018

Updated by: Deepak Sudheendra, MD, FSIR, RPVI, Assistant Professor of
Interventional Radiology & Surgery at the University of Pennsylvania Perelman
School of Medicine, with an expertise in Vascular Interventional Radiology &
Surgical Critical Care, Philadelphia, PA. Review provided by VeriMed
Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Blood Clots
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

