Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000513.htm    
                                Description: Renal vein thrombosis is a blood clot that develops in the vein that drains blood from the kidney.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Renal vein thrombosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000513.htm

# Renal vein thrombosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Renal vein thrombosis is a blood clot that develops in the vein that drains
blood from the kidney.

## Causes

Renal vein thrombosis is an uncommon disorder. It may be caused by:

    * Abdominal aortic aneurysm
    * Hypercoagulable state: clotting disorders
    * Dehydration (mostly in infants)
    * Estrogen use
    * Nephrotic syndrome
    * Pregnancy
    * Scar formation with pressure on the renal vein
    * Trauma (to the back or abdomen)
    * Tumor

In adults, the most common cause is nephrotic syndrome. In infants, the most
common cause is dehydration.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

    * Blood clot to the lung
    * Bloody urine
    * Decreased urine output
    * Flank pain or low back pain 

## Exams and Tests

An exam may not reveal the specific problem. However, it may indicate
nephrotic syndrome or other causes of renal vein thrombosis.

Tests include:

    * Abdominal CT scan
    * Abdominal MRI
    * Abdominal ultrasound
    * Duplex Doppler exam of the renal veins
    * Urinalysis may show protein in the urine or red blood cells in the urine
    * X-ray of the kidney veins (venography) 

## Treatment

The treatment helps to prevent the formation of new clots and reduces the risk
of clot traveling to other locations in the body (embolization).

You may get medicines that prevent blood clotting (anticoagulants). You may be
told to rest in bed or cut down on activity for a short time.

If sudden kidney failure develops, you may need dialysis for a short period.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Renal vein thrombosis most often gets better over time without lasting damage
to the kidneys.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Acute renal failure (especially if thrombosis occurs in a dehydrated child)
    * End stage renal disease
    * Blood clot moves to the lungs (pulmonary embolism)
    * Formation of new blood clots 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have symptoms of renal vein thrombosis.

If you have experienced renal vein thrombosis, call your provider if you have:

    * Decrease in urine output
    * Breathing problems
    * Other new symptoms 

## Prevention

In most cases, there is no specific way to prevent renal vein thrombosis.
Keeping enough fluids in the body may help reduce risk.

Aspirin is sometimes used to prevent renal vein thrombosis in people who have
had a kidney transplant. Blood thinners such as warfarin may be recommendedÂ
for some people with chronic kidney disease.

## Alternative Names

Blood clot in the renal vein; Occlusion - renal vein

## Images

    * ![Kidney anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1101t.jpg)Kidney anatomy
    * ![Kidney - blood and urine flow](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1704t.jpg)Kidney - blood and urine flow

## References

Dubose TD, Santos RM. Vascular disorders of the kidney. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 125.

Greco BA, Umanath K. Renovascular hypertension and ischemic nephropathy. In:
Feehally J, Floege J, Tonelli M, Johnson RJ, eds. _Comprehensive Clinical
Nephrology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 41.

Ruggenenti P, Cravedi P, Remuzzi G. Microvascular and macrovascular diseases
of the kidney. In: Skorecki K, Chertow GM, Marsden PA, Taal MW, Yu ASL, eds.
_Brenner and Rector's The Kidney_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 35.

## Review Date 4/15/2019

Updated by: Walead Latif, MD, nephrologist and Clinical Associate Professor,
Rutgers Medical School, Newark, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Blood Clots
_Read more_

![Kidney
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyDisease_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

