Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001628.htm    
                                Description: Cavernous sinus thrombosis is a blood clot in an area at the base of the brain.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cavernous sinus thrombosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001628.htm

# Cavernous sinus thrombosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cavernous sinus thrombosis is a blood clot in an area at the base of the
brain.

## Causes

The cavernous sinus receives blood from veins of the face and brain. The blood
drains it into other blood vessels that carry it back to the heart. This area
also contains nerves that control vision and eye movements.

Cavernous sinus thrombosis is most often caused by a bacterial infection that
has spread from the sinuses, teeth, ears, eyes, nose, or skin of the face.

You are more likely to develop this condition if you have an increased risk of
blood clots.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

    * Bulging eyeball, usually on one side of face
    * Cannot move the eye in a particular direction
    * Drooping eyelids
    * Headaches
    * Vision loss

## Exams and Tests

Tests that may be ordered include:

    * CT scan of the head
    * Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain
    * Magnetic resonance venogram
    * Sinus x-ray

## Treatment

Cavernous sinus thrombosis is treated with high-dose antibiotics given through
a vein (IV) if an infection is the cause.

Blood thinners help dissolve the blood clot and prevent it from getting worse
or recurring.

Surgery is sometimes needed to drain the infection.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Cavernous sinus thrombosis can lead to death if left untreated.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call yourÂ health care providerÂ right away if you have:

    * Bulging of your eyes
    * Drooping eyelids
    * Eye pain
    * Inability to move your eye in any particular direction
    * Vision loss

## Images

    * ![Sinuses](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1108t.jpg)Sinuses

## References

Durand ML. Periocular infections. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds.
_Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 118.

Nath A, Berger J. Brain abscess and parameningeal infections. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 413.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Blood Clots
_Read more_

![Nose Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NoseInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Nose
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

