Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000559.htm    
                                Description: Congenital protein C or S deficiency is a lack of proteins C or S in the fluid part of the blood. The proteins are natural substances that help prevent blood clots.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Congenital protein C or S deficiency

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000559.htm

# Congenital protein C or S deficiency

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Congenital protein C or S deficiency is a lack of proteins C or S in the fluid
part of the blood. The proteins are natural substances that help prevent blood
clots.

## Causes

Congenital protein C or S deficiency is an inherited disorder. This means it
is passed down through families. Congenital means it is present at birth.

The disorder causes abnormal blood clotting.

One in 300 people has one normal gene and one faulty gene for protein C
deficiency.

Protein S deficiency is much less common and occurs in about 1 in 20,000
people.

## Symptoms

If you have this condition, you are more likely to develop blood clots. The
symptoms are the same as for deep vein thrombosis, and include:

    * Pain or tenderness in the affected area
    * Redness or swelling in the affected area 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about your
medical history and symptoms.

Laboratory tests will be done to check for proteins C and S.Â

## Treatment

Blood-thinning drugs are used to treat and prevent blood clots.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome is usually good with treatment, but symptoms may return,
especially if blood-thinning agents are stopped.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Childhood stroke
    * More than one pregnancy loss (recurrent miscarriage)
    * Recurrent clots in the veins
    * Pulmonary embolismÂ (blood clot in a lung artery)

In rare cases, using warfarin to thin the blood and prevent clots can cause
brief increased clotting and severe skin wounds. People are at risk if they
are not treated with the blood-thinning drug heparin before taking warfarin.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of clotting in a vein (swelling and
redness of the leg).

## Prevention

If your provider diagnoses you with this disorder, you should be careful to
prevent clots from forming. This can occur when the blood moves slowly in the
veins, such as from prolonged bed rest during an illness, surgery, or hospital
stay. It may also occur after long airplane or car trips.

## Alternative Names

Protein S deficiency; Protein C deficiency

## Images

    * ![Blood clot formation](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19462t.jpg)Blood clot formation
    * ![Blood clots](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9326t.jpg)Blood clots

## References

Anderson JA, Hogg KE, Weitz JI. Hypercoagulable states. In: Hoffman R, Benz
EJ, Silberstein LE, et al, eds. _Hematology: Basic Principles and Practice._
7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 140.

Patterson JW. The vasculopathic reaction pattern. In: Patterson JW, ed.
_Weedon's Skin Pathology._ 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2015:chap 8.

## Review Date 10/18/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Blood Clots
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

