Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003661.htm    
                                Description: Antithrombin III (AT III) is a protein that helps control blood clotting. A blood test can determine the amount of AT III present in your body.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Antithrombin III blood test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003661.htm

# Antithrombin III blood test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Antithrombin III (AT III) is a protein that helps control blood clotting. A
blood test can determine the amount of AT III present in your body.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Certain medicines may affect the results of the test. Your health care
provider may tell you to stop taking certain medicines or reduce their dose
before the test. Do not stop taking any medicine before speaking with your
provider.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or a slight bruise. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

Your provider may order this test if you have repeated blood clots or if blood
thinning medicine does not work.

## Normal Results

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk to
your provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Lower-than-normal AT III may mean you have an increased risk for blood
clotting. This can occur when there is not enough AT III in your blood, or
when there is enough AT III in your blood, but the AT III does not function
properly and is less active.

Abnormal results may not appear until you are an adult.

Examples of complications associated with increased blood clotting are:

    * Deep venous thrombosis
    * Phlebitis (vein inflammation)
    * Pulmonary embolus (blood clot traveling to lung)
    * Thrombophlebitis (vein inflammation with clot formation) 

Lower than normal AT III may be due to:

    * Bone marrow transplant
    * Disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC)
    * AT III deficiency, an inherited condition
    * Liver cirrhosis
    * Nephrotic syndrome 

Higher than normal AT III may be due to:

    * Use of anabolic steroids 
    * Bleeding disorder (hemophilia)
    * Kidney transplant
    * Low level of vitamin K

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another, and from one side of the body to the
other. Obtaining a blood sample from some people may be more difficult than
from others.

Other risks may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins  

    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

## Alternative Names

Antithrombin; AT III; AT 3; Functional antithrombin III; Clotting disorder -
AT III; DVT - AT III; Deep vein thrombosis - AT III

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Antithrombin III (AT-III) test - diagnostic. In:
Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds. Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures. 6th
ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:156-157.

Napolitano M, Schmaier AH, Kessler CM. Coagulation and fibrinolysis. In:
McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by
Laboratory Methods. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 39.

## Review Date 4/2/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Blood Clots
_Read more_

![Deep Vein
Thrombosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DeepVeinThrombosis_thumb.jpg)Deep
Vein Thrombosis _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

