Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001108.htm    
                                Description: Thrombophlebitis is swelling (inflammation) of a vein. A blood clot (thrombus) in the vein can cause this swelling.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Thrombophlebitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001108.htm

# Thrombophlebitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Thrombophlebitis is swelling (inflammation) of a vein. A blood clot (thrombus)
in the vein can cause this swelling.

## Causes

Thrombophlebitis may affect deeper, larger veins or veins near the skin
surface. Most of the time, it occurs in the pelvis and legs.

Blood clots may form when something slows or changes the flow of blood in the
veins. Risk factors include:

    * A pacemaker catheter that has been passed through the vein in the groin
    * Bed rest or sitting inÂ one position for too long such as plane travel
    * Family history of blood clots
    * Fractures in the pelvis or legs
    * Giving birth within the last 6 months
    * Pregnancy
    * Obesity
    * Recent surgery (most commonly hip, knee, or female pelvic surgery)
    * Too many blood cells being made by the bone marrow, causing the blood to be thicker than normal (polycythemia vera)
    * Having an indwelling (long-term) catheter in a blood vessel

Blood is more likely to clot in someone who has certain problems or disorders,
such as:

    * Cancer
    * Certain autoimmune disorders, such as lupus
    * Cigarette smoking
    * Conditions that make it more likely to develop blood clots
    * Taking estrogens or birth control pills (this risk is even higher with smoking)

## Symptoms

The following symptoms are often associated with thrombophlebitis:

    * Swelling in the part of the body affected
    * Pain in the part of the body affected
    * Skin redness (not always present)
    * Warmth and tenderness over the vein

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider can usually diagnose the condition based on how the
affected area looks. Your provider will frequently check your vital signs.
This is to make sure you don't have complications.

If the cause cannot be easily identified, one or more of the following tests
may be done:

    * Blood coagulation studies
    * Doppler ultrasound
    * Venography

## Treatment

Support stockings and wraps can help to reduce discomfort. Your provider may
prescribe medicines such as:

    * Painkillers 
    * Blood thinners to prevent new clots from forming, most often only prescribed when deep veins are involved 
    * Medicines such as ibuprofen to reduce pain and swelling 
    * Medicines injected into the vein to dissolve an existing clot 

You may be told to do the following:

    * Keep pressure off the area to reduce pain and decrease the risk for further damage. 
    * Raise the affected area to reduce swelling. 

Rare treatment options are:

    * Surgical removal of a vein near the surface
    * Vein stripping
    * Bypass of the vein

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Prompt treatment can treat thrombophlebitis and its other forms.

## Possible Complications

Complications ofÂ thrombosis include:

    * Blood clot in the lungs (pulmonary embolism) 
    * Chronic pain
    * Swelling in the leg

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of thrombophlebitis.

Call your provider right away if:

    * Your symptoms do not improve with treatment.
    * Your symptoms get worse.
    * New symptoms occur (such asÂ an entire limb becoming pale, cold, or swollen).

## Prevention

Routine changing of intravenous (IV) lines helps to prevent thrombophlebitis
related to IVs.

If you are taking a long car or plane trip:

    * Walk or stretch your legs once in a while
    * Drink plenty of liquids
    * Wear support hose

If you are hospitalized, your provider may prescribe medicine to prevent
thrombophlebitis.

## Alternative Names

Phlebitis; Deep vein thrombosis - thrombophlebitis

## Images

    * ![Deep venous thrombosis - iliofemoral](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2549t.jpg)Deep venous thrombosis - iliofemoral
    * ![Venous blood clot](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8984t.jpg)Venous blood clot

## References

Benrashid E, Youngwirth LM, Turley RS, Mureebe L. Venous thromboembolism:
prevention, diagnosis, and treatment. In: Cameron JL, Cameron AM, eds.
_Current Surgical Therapy_. 12th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:1091-1098.

Ginsberg JS. Peripheral venous disease. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 81.

Rathbun S. Superficial thrombophlebitis. In: Cronenwett JL, Johnston KW, eds.
_Rutherford's Vascular Surgery_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2014:chap 54.

## Review Date 1/14/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Blood Clots
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

