Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001124.htm    
                                Description: Blood clots are clumps that occur when blood hardens from a liquid to a solid.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Blood clots

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001124.htm

# Blood clots

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Blood clots are clumps that occur when blood hardens from a liquid to a solid.

    * A blood clot that forms insideÂ one of your veins or arteries is called a thrombus. A thrombus may also form in your heart. 
    * A thrombus that breaks loose and travels fromÂ one location in the body to another is called an embolus.

A thrombus or embolus can partly or completely block the flow of blood in a
blood vessel.

    * A blockage in an artery may prevent oxygen from reaching the tissues in that area. This is called ischemia. If ischemia is not treated promptly, it can lead to tissue damage or death.
    * A blockage in the vein will often cause fluid buildup and swelling. 

## Causes

Situations in which a blood clot is more likely to form in veins include:

    * Being on long-term bed rest
    * Sitting for long periods, such as in a plane or car
    * During and after pregnancy
    * Taking birth control pills or estrogen hormones (especially in women who smoke)
    * Long-term use of an intravenous catheter 
    * After surgery

Blood clots are also more likely to form after an injury. People with cancer,
obesity, and liver or kidney disease are also prone to blood clots.

Smoking also increases the risk of forming blood clots.

Conditions that are passed down through families (inherited) may make you more
likely to form abnormal blood clots. Inherited conditions that affect clotting
are:

    * Factor V Leiden thrombophilia
    * Prothrombin G20210A mutation

Other rare conditions, such as protein C, protein S, and antithrombin III
deficiencies.

A blood clot may block an artery or vein in the heart, affecting the:

    * Heart (angina or a heart attack)
    * Intestines (mesenteric ischemia or mesenteric venous thrombosis)
    * Kidneys (renal vein thrombosis)
    * Leg or arm arteries
    * Legs (deep vein thrombosis)
    * Lungs (pulmonary embolism)
    * Neck or brain (stroke) 

## Alternative Names

Clot; Emboli; Thrombi; Thromboembolus; Hypercoagulable state

## Patient Instructions

    * Deep vein thrombosis - discharge
    * Taking warfarin (Coumadin, Jantoven) - what to ask your doctor
    * Taking warfarin (Coumadin)

## Images

    * ![Thrombus](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18120t.jpg)Thrombus
    * ![Deep venous thrombosis - iliofemoral](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2549t.jpg)Deep venous thrombosis - iliofemoral

## References

Anderson JA, Hogg KE, Weitz JI. Hypercoagulable states. In: Hoffman R, Benz
EJ, Silberstein LE, et al, eds. _Hematology: Basic Principles and Practice_.
7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 140.

Schafer AI. Thrombotic disorders: hypercoagulable states. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 176.

## Review Date 5/14/2018

Updated by: Preeti Sudheendra, MD, oncologist at the MD Anderson Cancer Center
at Cooper, Camden, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Blood Clots
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

