Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003373.htm    
                                Description: Fibrinopeptide A is a substance released as blood clots in your body. A test can be done to measure the level of this substance in your blood.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Fibrinopeptide A blood test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003373.htm

# Fibrinopeptide A blood test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Fibrinopeptide A is a substance released as blood clots in your body. A test
can be done to measure the level of this substance in your blood.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is necessary.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or a slight bruise. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is used to help diagnose severe problems with blood clotting, such
as disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC). Certain types of leukemia are
associated with DIC.

## Normal Results

In general, the level of fibrinopeptide A should range from 0.6 to 1.9
(mg/mL).

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or may test different specimens. Talk to your
doctor about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An increased fibrinopeptide A level may be a sign of:

    * Cellulitis
    * DIC (disseminated intravascular coagulation) 
    * Leukemia at the time of diagnosis, during early treatment, and during a relapse
    * Some infections
    * Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE)

## Risks

There is little risk in having your blood taken. Veins and arteries vary in
size from one person to another and from one side of the body to the other.
Drawing blood from some people may be more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

## Alternative Names

FPA

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Fibrinopeptide A (FPA) - blood. In: Chernecky CC,
Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:526-527.

Pai M. Laboratory evaluation of hemostatic and thrombotic disorders. In:
Hoffman R, Benz EJ, Silberstein LE, et al, eds. _Hematology: Basic Principles
and Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 129.

## Review Date 3/12/2019

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![white blood
cells](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LeukemiaWhiteBloodCell_thumb.jpg)Acute
Lymphocytic Leukemia _Read more_

![white blood
cells](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LeukemiaWhiteBloodCell_thumb.jpg)Acute
Myeloid Leukemia _Read more_

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Bleeding
Disorders _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

