Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003655.htm    
                                Description: Fibrin degradation products (FDPs) are the substances left behind when clots dissolve in the blood. A blood test can be done to measure these products.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Fibrin degradation products blood test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003655.htm

# Fibrin degradation products blood test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Fibrin degradation products (FDPs) are the substances left behind when clots
dissolve in the blood. A blood test can be done to measure these products.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Certain medicines can change blood test results.

    * Tell your health care provider about all the medicines you take.
    * Your provider will tell you if you need to temporarily stop taking any medicines before you have this test. This includes blood thinners such as aspirin, heparin, streptokinase, and urokinase, which make it hard for the blood to clot.
    * Do not stop or change your medicines without talking to your provider first.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or slight bruising. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is done to see if your clot-dissolving (fibrinolytic) system is
working properly. Your provider may order this test if you have signs of
disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) or another clot-dissolving
disorder.

## Normal Results

The result is normally less than 10 mcg/mL (10 mg/L).

Note: Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some
labs use different measurements or may test different specimens. Talk to your
provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Increased FDPs may be a sign of primary or secondary fibrinolysis (clot-
dissolving activity) due to a variety of causes, including:

    * Blood clotting problems
    * Burns
    * Problem with the heart's structure and function that is present at birth (congenital heart disease)
    * Disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC)
    * Low level of oxygen in the blood
    * Infections
    * Leukemia
    * Liver disease
    * Problem during pregnancy such as preeclampsia, placenta abruptio, miscarriage
    * Recent blood transfusion
    * Recent surgery that involved a heart and lung bypass pump, or surgery to lower high blood pressure in the liver
    * Kidney disease
    * Transplant rejection
    * Transfusion reaction

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another, and from one side of the body to the
other. Obtaining a blood sample from some people may be more difficult than
from others.

Other risks with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

## Alternative Names

FDPs; FSPs; Fibrin split products; Fibrin breakdown products

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Fibrinogen breakdown products (fibrin degradation
products, FDP) - blood. In: Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests
and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders;
2013:525-526.

Levi M. Disseminated intravascular coagulation. In: Hoffman R, Benz EJ,
Silberstein LE, et al, eds. _Hematology: Basic Principles and Practice_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 139.

## Review Date 1/29/2019

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Bleeding
Disorders _Read more_

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Blood Clots
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

