Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001102.htm    
                                Description: Arterial embolism is a sudden interruption of blood flow to an organ or body part due to a clot (embolus) that has come from another part of the body.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Arterial embolism

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001102.htm

# Arterial embolism

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Arterial embolism is a sudden interruption of blood flow to an organ or body
part due to a clot (embolus) that has come from another part of the body.

## Causes

An "embolus" is a blood clot or a piece of plaque that acts like a clot. The
word "emboli" means there is more than one clot or piece of plaque. When the
clot travels from the site where it formed to another location in the body, it
is called an embolism.

An arterial embolism may be caused by one or more clots. The clots can get
stuck in an artery and block blood flow. The blockage starves tissues of blood
and oxygen. This can result in damage or tissue death (necrosis).

Arterial emboli often occur in the legs and feet. Emboli that occur in the
brain cause a stroke. Ones that occur in the heart cause a heart attack. Less
common sites include the kidneys, intestines, and eyes.

![Arterial embolism](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/18076.jpg)

Risk factors for arterial embolism include:

    * A type of abnormal heart rhythm called atrial fibrillation
    * Injury or damage to an artery wall
    * Conditions that increase blood clotting (such as a very high platelet count) 

Another condition that poses a high risk for embolization (especially to the
brain) is mitral stenosis. Endocarditis (infection of the inside of the heart)
can also cause arterial emboli.

A common source for an embolus is from areas of hardening (atherosclerosis) in
the aorta and other large blood vessels. These clots can break loose and flow
down to the legs and feet.

Paradoxical embolization can take place when a clot in a vein enters the right
side of the heart and passes through a hole into the left side. The clot can
then move to an artery and block blood flow to the brain (stroke) or other
organs.

If a clot travels and lodges in the arteries supplying blood flow to the
lungs, it is called a pulmonary embolus.

## Symptoms

You may not have any symptoms.

Symptoms may begin quickly or slowly depending on the size of the embolus and
how much it blocks the blood flow.

Symptoms of an arterial embolism in the arms or legs may include:

    * Cold arm or leg
    * Decreased or no pulse in an arm or leg
    * Fingers or hands feel cool
    * Lack of movement in the arm or leg
    * Muscle pain in the affected area
    * Muscle spasm in the affected area
    * Numbness and tingling in the arm or leg
    * Pale color of the arm or leg (pallor)
    * Weakness of an arm or leg 

Later symptoms:

    * Blisters of the skin fed by the affected artery
    * Shedding (sloughing) of skin
    * Skin erosion (ulcer)
    * Tissue death (necrosis; skin is dark and damaged) 

Symptoms of a clot in an organ vary with the organ involved but may include:

    * Pain in the part of the body that is involved
    * Temporarily decreased organ function 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider may find decreased or no pulse, and decreased or no
blood pressure in the arm or leg. There may be signs of tissue death or
gangrene.

Tests to diagnose arterial embolism or reveal the source of emboli may
include:

    * Angiography of the affected extremity or organ
    * Doppler ultrasound exam of an extremity
    * Duplex Doppler ultrasound exam of extremity
    * Echocardiogram
    * MRI of the arm or leg
    * Myocardial contrast echocardiography (MCE)
    * Plethysmography
    * Transcranial Doppler exam of arteries to the brain
    * Transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) 

This disease may also affect the results of the following tests:

    * D-dimerÂ 
    * Euglobulin lysis time (ELT)
    * Factor VIII assay
    * Isotope study of the affected organ
    * Plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) activity
    * Platelet aggregation test
    * Tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA) levels 

## Treatment

Arterial embolism requires prompt treatment at a hospital. The goals of
treatment are to control symptoms and to improve the interrupted blood flow to
the affected area of the body. The cause of the clot, if found, should be
treated to prevent further problems.

Medicines include:

    * Anticoagulants (such as warfarin or heparin) can prevent new clots from forming 
    * Antiplatelet medicines (such as aspirin or clopidogrel) can prevent new clots from forming 
    * Painkillers given through a vein (by IV) 
    * Thrombolytics (such as streptokinase) can dissolve clots 

Some people need surgery. Procedures include:

    * Bypass of the artery (arterial bypass) to create a second source of blood supply 
    * Clot removal through a balloon catheter placed into the affected artery or through open surgery on the artery (embolectomy) 
    * Opening of the artery with a balloon catheter (angioplasty) with or without a stent 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well a person does depends on the location of the clot and how much the
clot has blocked blood flow and for how long the blockage has been present.
Arterial embolism can be very serious if not treated promptly.

The affected area can be permanently damaged. Amputation is needed in up to 1
in 4 cases.

Arterial emboli can come back even after successful treatment.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Acute MI
    * Infection in the affected tissue
    * Septic shock
    * Stroke (CVA)
    * Temporary or permanent decrease or loss of other organ functions
    * Temporary or permanent kidney failure
    * Tissue death (necrosis) and gangrene
    * Transient ischemic attack (TIA)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Go to the emergency room or call the local emergency number (such as 911) if
you have symptoms of arterial embolism.

## Prevention

Prevention begins with finding possible sources of a blood clot. Your provider
may prescribe blood thinners (such as warfarin or heparin) to prevent clots
from forming. Antiplatelet drugs may also be needed.

You have a higher risk atherosclerosis and clots if you:

    * Smoke
    * Do little exercise
    * Have high blood pressure
    * Have abnormal cholesterol levels
    * Have diabetes
    * Are overweight
    * Are stressed 

## Images

    * ![Arterial embolism](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18076t.jpg)Arterial embolism
    * ![Circulatory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8747t.jpg)Circulatory system

## References

Gerhard-Herman MD, Gornik HL, Barrett C, et al. 2016 AHA/ACC guideline on the
management of patients with lower extremity peripheral artery disease:
executive summary: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American
Heart Association Task Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines. _Circulation_.
2016;135(12):e686-e725. www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27851991.

Goldman L. Approach to the patient with possible cardiovascular disease. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 51.

Kline JA. Pulmonary embolism and deep vein thrombosis. In: Walls RM,
Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and
Clinical Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 78.

Patel MS, Chaikof EL. Peripheral arterial embolism. In: Cameron P, Jelinek G,
Kelly A-M, Brown A, Little M, eds. _Textbook of Adult Emergency Medicine_. 4th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone; 2015:1031-1036.

## Review Date 5/16/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Blood Clots
_Read more_

![Vascular
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VascularDiseases_thumb.jpg)Vascular
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

