Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000207.htm    
                                Description: Benign esophageal stricture is a narrowing of the esophagus (the tube from the mouth to the stomach). It causes swallowing difficulties.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Esophageal stricture - benign

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000207.htm

# Esophageal stricture - benign

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Benign esophageal stricture is a narrowing of the esophagus (the tube from the
mouth to the stomach). It causes swallowing difficulties.

Benign means that it is not caused by cancer of the esophagus.

## Causes

Esophageal stricture can be caused by:

    * Gastroesophageal reflux (GERD).
    * Eosinophilic esophagitis.
    * Injuries caused by an endoscope. 
    * Long-term use of a nasogastric (NG) tube (tube through the nose into the stomach).
    * Swallowing substances that harm the lining of the esophagus. These may include household cleaners, lye, disc batteries, or battery acid.
    * Treatment of esophageal varices. 

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

    * Trouble swallowing
    * Pain with swallowing
    * Unintentional weight loss
    * Regurgitation of food 

## Exams and Tests

You may need the following tests:

    * Barium swallow to look for narrowing of the esophagus
    * Endoscopy to look for narrowing of the esophagus

## Treatment

Dilation (stretching) of the esophagus using a thin cylinder or balloon that
is inserted through an endoscope is the main treatment for acid reflux related
strictures.You may need to have this treatment repeated after a period of time
to prevent the stricture from narrowing again.

Proton pump inhibitors (acid-blocking medicines) can keep a peptic stricture
from returning. Surgery is rarely needed.

If you have eosinophilic esophagitis, you may need to take medicines or make
changes to your diet to reduce the inflammation. In some cases, dilation is
done.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The stricture may come back in the future. This would require a repeat
dilation.

## Possible Complications

Swallowing problems may keep you from getting enough fluids and nutrients.
Solid food, especially meat, can get stuck above the stricture. If this
happens, endoscopy would be needed to remove the lodged food.

There is also a higher risk of having food, fluid, or vomit enter the lungs
with regurgitation. This can cause choking or aspiration pneumonia.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have swallowing problems thatÂ do notÂ
go away.

## Prevention

Use safety measures to avoid swallowing substances that can harm your
esophagus. Keep dangerous chemicals out of the reach of children. See your
provider if you have GERD.

## Patient Instructions

    * Anti-reflux surgery - discharge 

## Images

    * ![Schatzki ring - x-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1197t.jpg)Schatzki ring - x-ray
    * ![Digestive system organs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8710t.jpg)Digestive system organs

## References

El-Omar E, McLean MH. Gastroenterology. In: Ralston SH, Penman ID, Strachan
MWJ, Hobson RP, eds. _Davidson's Principles and Practice of Medicine_. 23rd
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 21.

Pfau PR, Hancock SM. Foreign bodies, bezoars, and caustic ingestions. In:
Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's
Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 27.

Richter JE, Friendenberg FK. Gastroesophageal reflux disease. In: Feldman M,
Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and
Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 44.

## Review Date 10/22/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Esophagus](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EsopagusDisordersandEsophagealCancer_thumb.jpg)Esophagus
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

