Link: https://medlineplus.gov/hivaidsmedicines.html    
                                Description: There are five types of HIV/AID medications or treatment. They do not cure HIV/AIDS, but fight the infection. Discover more about these medications.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

HIV/AIDS Medicines

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/hivaidsmedicines.html

#  HIV/AIDS Medicines

Also called: Antiretroviral therapy

On this page

### Basics

  * Summary
  * Start Here
  * Diagnosis and Tests

### Learn More

  * Related Issues
  * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

  * Images

### Research

  * Clinical Trials
  * Journal Articles

### Resources

  * Reference Desk
  * Find an Expert

### For You

  * Patient Handouts

## Summary

### What is HIV/AIDS?

HIV stands for human immunodeficiency virus. It harms your immune system by
destroying CD4 cells. These are a type of white blood cells that fight
infection. The loss of these cells makes it hard for your body to fight off
infections and certain HIV-related cancers.

Without treatment, HIV can gradually destroy the immune system and advance to
AIDS. AIDS stands for acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. It is the final
stage of infection with HIV. Not everyone with HIV develops AIDS.

### What is antiretroviral therapy (ART)?

The treatment of HIV/AIDS with medicines is called antiretroviral therapy
(ART). It is recommended for everyone who has HIV. The medicines do not cure
HIV infection, but they do make it a manageable chronic condition. They also
reduce the risk of spreading the virus to others.

### How do HIV/AIDS medicines work?

HIV/AIDS medicines reduce the amount of HIV (viral load) in your body, which
helps by

  * Giving your immune system a chance to recover. Even though there is still some HIV in your body, your immune system should be strong enough to fight off infections and certain HIV-related cancers.
  * Reducing the risk that you will spread HIV to others

### What are the types of HIV/AIDS medicines?

There are several different types of HIV/AIDS medicines. Some work by blocking
or changing enzymes that HIV needs to make copies of itself. This prevents HIV
from copying itself, which reduces the amount of HIV in the body. Several
medicines do this:

  * **Nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs)** block the reverse transcriptase enzyme
  * **Non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs)** bind to and later change the reverse transcriptase enzyme
  * **Integrase inhibitors** block the integrase enzyme
  * **Protease inhibitors (PIs)** block the protease enzyme

Some HIV/AIDS medicines interfere with HIV's ability to infect CD4 immune
system cells:

  * **Fusion inhibitors** block HIV from entering the cells
  * **CCR5 antagonists and post-attachment inhibitors** block different molecules on the CD4 cells. To infect a cell, HIV has to bind to two types of molecules on the cell's surface. Blocking either of these molecules prevents HIV from entering the cells.

In some cases, people take more than one medicine:

  * **Pharmacokinetic enhancers** boost the effectiveness of certain HIV/AIDS medicines. A pharmacokinetic enhancer slows the breakdown of the other medicine. This allows that medicine to stay in the body longer at a higher concentration.
  * **Multidrug combinations** include a combination of two or more different HIV/AIDS medicines

### When do I need to start taking HIV/AIDS medicines?

It's important to start taking HIV/AIDS medicines as soon as possible after
your diagnosis, especially if you

  * Are pregnant
  * Have AIDS
  * Have certain HIV-related illnesses and infections
  * Have an early HIV infection (the first 6 months after infection with HIV)

### What else do I need to know about taking HIV/AIDS medicines?

It's important to take your medicines every day, according to the instructions
from your health care provider. If you miss doses or don't follow a regular
schedule, your treatment may not work and the HIV virus may become resistant
to the medicines.

HIV medicines can cause side effects. Most of these side effects are
manageable, but a few can be serious. Tell your health care provider about any
side effects you are having. Don't stop taking your medicine without first
talking to your provider. He or she may give you tips on how to deal with the
side effects. In some cases, your provider may decide to change your
medicines.

### What are HIV PrEP and PEP medicines?

HIV medicines are not just used for treatment. Some people take them to
prevent HIV. PrEP (pre-exposure prophylaxis) is for people who don't already
have HIV but are at very high risk of getting it. PEP (post-exposure
prophylaxis) is for people who have possibly been exposed to HIV.

AIDSinfo

## Start Here

  * AIDSinfo Drug Database ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (AIDSinfo) Also in Spanish
  * FDA-Approved HIV Medicines ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (AIDSinfo) Also in Spanish
  * HIV and AIDS: Medicines to Help You ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (Food and Drug Administration)
  * HIV Treatment: The Basics ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (AIDSinfo)
  * HIV/AIDS Treatment ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases)
  * Treatment for HIV (Department of Veterans Affairs)

## Diagnosis and Tests

  * Pharmacogenetic Tests ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

  * Are You Taking Medication as Prescribed? (Food and Drug Administration)
  * Drug Resistance ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (AIDSinfo) Also in Spanish
  * Following an HIV Regimen: Steps to Take Before and After Starting HIV Medicines ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (AIDSinfo) Also in Spanish
  * HIV Medication Adherence ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (AIDSinfo) Also in Spanish
  * HIV Medicines and Side Effects ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (AIDSinfo) Also in Spanish
  * HIV: PrEP and PEP: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Side Effects of HIV Medicines: HIV and Diabetes ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (AIDSinfo) Also in Spanish
  * Side Effects of HIV Medicines: HIV and Hepatotoxicity ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (AIDSinfo) Also in Spanish
  * Side Effects of HIV Medicines: HIV and Lactic Acidosis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (AIDSinfo) Also in Spanish
  * Side Effects of HIV Medicines: HIV and Lipodystrophy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (AIDSinfo) Also in Spanish
  * Side Effects of HIV Medicines: HIV and Osteoporosis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (AIDSinfo) Also in Spanish
  * Side Effects of HIV Medicines: HIV and Rash ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (AIDSinfo) Also in Spanish
  * What to Start: Selecting a First HIV Regimen ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (AIDSinfo) Also in Spanish
  * When to Start Antiretroviral Therapy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (AIDSinfo)

## Specifics

  * HIV Treatment: What is a Drug Interaction? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (AIDSinfo) Also in Spanish
  * What is an Investigational HIV Drug? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (AIDSinfo) Also in Spanish

## Images

  * Drugs That Fight HIV-1 ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (AIDSinfo) \- PDF

## Clinical Trials

  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Anti-HIV Agents ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Antiretroviral Therapy, Highly Active ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

  * Article: Fostemsavir in Adults with Multidrug-Resistant HIV-1 Infection.
  * Article: Long-Acting Cabotegravir and Rilpivirine for Maintenance of HIV-1 Suppression.
  * Article: Long-Acting Cabotegravir and Rilpivirine after Oral Induction for HIV-1 Infection.
  * HIV/AIDS Medicines -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

  * AIDSinfo Glossary ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (AIDSinfo) Also in Spanish

## Find an Expert

  * AIDSinfo ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (Department of Health and Human Services) Also in Spanish
  * HIV.gov (AIDS.gov)
  * National Institutes of Health, Office of AIDS Research ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)
  * NIAID Division of AIDS ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases)

## Patient Handouts

  * FDA-Approved HIV Medicines ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (AIDSinfo) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![HIV/AIDS Medicines](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HIVAIDSMedicines.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## Related Health Topics

  * HIV/AIDS
  * HIV: PrEP and PEP

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on HIV/AIDS Medicines is the
National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _HIV/AIDS
Medicines_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 10 January 2020 Topic last reviewed: 10 October 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

