Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000268.htm    
                                Description: The esophagus (food pipe) is the tube that connects your throat to your stomach. Varices are enlarged veins that may be found in the esophagus in people with cirrhosis of the liver. These veins may rupture    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bleeding esophageal varices

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000268.htm

# Bleeding esophageal varices

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The esophagus (food pipe) is the tube that connects your throat to your
stomach. Varices are enlarged veins that may be found in the esophagus in
people with cirrhosis of the liver. These veins may rupture and bleed.

## Causes

Scarring (cirrhosis) of the liver is the most common cause of esophageal
varices. This scarring cuts down on blood flowing through the liver. As a
result, more blood flows through the veins of the esophagus.

The extra blood flow causes the veins in the esophagus to balloon outward.
Heavy bleeding can occur if the veins tear.

Any type of long-term (chronic) liver disease can cause esophageal varices.

Varices can also occur in the upper part of the stomach.

## Symptoms

People with chronic liver disease and esophageal varices may have no symptoms.

If there is only a small amount of bleeding, the only symptom may be dark or
black streaks in the stools.

If larger amounts of bleeding occur, symptoms may include:

    * Black, tarry stools
    * Bloody stools
    * Lightheadedness
    * Paleness
    * Symptoms of chronic liver disease
    * Vomiting blood

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will do a physical exam which may show:

    * Bloody or black stool (in a rectal exam)
    * Low blood pressure
    * Rapid heart rate
    * Signs of chronic liver disease or cirrhosis

Tests to find the source of the bleeding and check if there is active bleeding
include:

    * EGD or upper endoscopy, which involves the use of a camera on a flexible tube to examine the esophagus and stomach.
    * Insertion of a tube through the nose into the stomach (nasogastric tube) to look for signs of bleeding.

Some providers suggest EGD for people who are newly diagnosed with mild to
moderate cirrhosis. This test screens for esophageal varices and treats them
before there is bleeding.

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to stop acute bleeding as soon as possible. Bleeding
must be controlled quickly to prevent shock and death.

If massive bleeding occurs, a person may need to be put on a ventilator to
protect their airway and prevent blood from going down into the lungs.

To stop the bleeding, the provider may pass anÂ endoscope (tube with a small
light at the end) into the esophagus:

    * A clotting medicine may be injected into the varices.
    * A rubber band may be placed around the bleeding veins (called banding).

Other treatments to stop the bleeding:

    * A medicine toÂ tighten blood vessels may be given through the vein. Examples include octreotide or vasopressin.
    * Rarely, a tube may be inserted through the nose into the stomach and inflated with air. This produces pressure against the bleeding veins (balloon tamponade).

Once the bleeding is stopped, other varices can be treated with medicines and
medical procedures to prevent future bleeding. These include:

    * Drugs called beta blockers, such as propranolol and nadolol that reduce the risk of bleeding.
    * A rubber band can be placed around the bleeding veins during an EGD procedure. Also, some medicines can be injected into the varices during EGD to cause them to clot.
    * Transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt (TIPS). This is a procedure to create new connections between two blood vessels in your liver. This can decrease pressure in the veins and prevent bleeding episodes from happening again.

In rare cases, emergency surgery may be used to treat people if other
treatment fails. Portacaval shunts or surgery to reduce the pressure in the
esophageal varices are treatment options, but these procedures are risky.

People with bleeding varices from liver disease may need more treatment for
their liver disease, including a liver transplant.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Bleeding often comes back with or without treatment.

Bleeding esophageal varices are a serious complication of liver disease and
have a poor outcome.

Placement of a shunt can lead to decrease of blood supply to the brain. This
can lead to mental status changes.

## Possible Complications

Future problems caused by varices may include:

    * Narrowing or stricture of the esophagus due to scarring after a procedure
    * Return of bleeding after treatment

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider or go to an emergency room if you vomit blood or have black
tarry stools.

## Prevention

Treating the causes of liver disease may prevent bleeding. Liver
transplantation should be considered for some people.

## Alternative Names

Liver cirrhosis - varices; Cryptogenic chronic liver disease - varices; End-
stage liver disease - varices; Alcoholic liver disease - varices

## Patient Instructions

    * Cirrhosis - discharge

## Images

    * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
    * ![Liver blood supply](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8847t.jpg)Liver blood supply

## References

Garcia-Tsao G. Cirrhosis and its sequelae. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 153.

Savides TJ, Jensen DM. Gastrointestinal bleeding. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS,
Brandt LJ, eds. _SleisengerÂ and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver
Disease: Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 20.

Weinberg AJ. Esophageal varices. In: Ferri FF, ed. _Ferri's Clinical Advisor
2018_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:475.e2-475.e2.

## Review Date 10/25/2017

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cirrhosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cirrhosis2_thumb.jpg)Cirrhosis
_Read more_

![Esophagus](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EsopagusDisordersandEsophagealCancer_thumb.jpg)Esophagus
Disorders _Read more_

![Gastrointestinal
Bleeding](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GastrointestinalBleeding_thumb.jpg)Gastrointestinal
Bleeding _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

