Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003401.htm    
                                Description: Esophageal pH monitoring is a test that measures how often stomach acid enters the tube that leads from the mouth to the stomach (called the esophagus). The test also measures how long the acid stays there.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Esophageal pH monitoring

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003401.htm

# Esophageal pH monitoring

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Esophageal pH monitoring is a test that measures how often stomach acid enters
the tube that leads from the mouth to the stomach (called the esophagus). The
test also measures how long the acid stays there.

## How the Test is Performed

A thin tube is passed through your nose or mouth to your stomach. The tube is
then pulled back into your esophagus. A monitor attached to the tube measures
the acid level in your esophagus.

You will wear the monitor on a strap and record your symptoms and activity
over the next 24 hours in a diary. You will return to the hospital the next
day and the tube will be removed. The information from the monitor will be
compared with your diary notes.

Infants and children may need to stay in the hospital for the esophageal pH
monitoring.

A newer method of monitoring esophageal acid (pH monitoring) is by use of a
wireless pH probe.

    * This capsule-like device is attached to the lining of the upper esophagus with an endoscope.
    * It remains in the esophagus where it measures acidity and transmits pH levels to a recording device worn on the wrist.
    * The capsule falls off after a 4 to 10 days and moves down through gastrointestinal tract. It is then expelled with a bowel movement and flushed down the toilet. 

## How to Prepare for the Test

Your health care provider will ask you to not eat or drink after midnight
before the test. You should also avoid smoking.

Some medicines may change the test results. Your provider may ask you to not
take these for between 24 hours and 2 weeks (or more) before the test. You
also may be told to avoid alcohol. Medicines that you may need to stop
include:

    * Adrenergic blockers
    * Antacids
    * Anticholinergics
    * Cholinergics
    * Corticosteroids
    * H2 blockers
    * Proton pump inhibitors 

DO NOT stop taking any medicine unless told to do so by your provider.

## How the Test will Feel

You briefly feel like gagging as the tube is passed through your throat.

The Bravo pH monitor causes no discomfort.

## Why the Test is Performed

Esophageal pH monitoring is used to check how much stomach acid is entering
the esophagus. It also checks how well the acid is cleared downward into the
stomach. It is a test for gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD).

In infants, this test is also used to check for GERD and other problems
related to excessive crying.

## Normal Results

Normal value ranges may vary depending on the lab doing the test. Talk to your
provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Increased acid in the esophagus may be related to:

    * Barrett esophagus
    * Difficulty swallowing (dysphagia)
    * Esophageal scarring
    * Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD)
    * Heartburn
    * Reflux esophagitis 

You may need to have the following tests if your provider suspects
esophagitis:

    * Barium swallow
    * Esophagogastroduodenoscopy (also called upper GI endoscopy) 

## Risks

Rarely, the following may occur:

    * Arrhythmias during insertion of the tube
    * Breathing in of vomit if the catheter causes vomiting

## Alternative Names

pH monitoring - esophageal; Esophageal acidity test

## Images

    * ![Esophageal pH monitoring](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9304t.jpg)Esophageal pH monitoring

## References

Falk GW, Katzka DA. Diseases of the esophagus. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 138.

Kavitt RT, Vaezi MF. Diseases of the esophagus. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund
V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head and Neck Surgery_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 69.

Richter JE, Friedenberg FK. Gastroesophageal reflux disease. In: Feldman M,
Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and
Liver Disease: Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 44.

## Review Date 10/25/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Esophagus](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EsopagusDisordersandEsophagealCancer_thumb.jpg)Esophagus
Disorders _Read more_

![GERD](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GERD_thumb.jpg)GERD _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

