Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003816.htm    
                                Description: An upper GI and small bowel series is a set of x-rays taken to examine the esophagus, stomach, and small intestine.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Upper GI and small bowel series

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003816.htm

# Upper GI and small bowel series

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An upper GI and small bowel series is a set of x-rays taken to examine the
esophagus, stomach, and small intestine.

Barium enema is a related test that examines the large intestine.

## How the Test is Performed

An upper GI and small bowel series is done in a health care office or hospital
radiology department.

You may get an injection of a medicine that slows muscle movement in the small
intestine. This makes it easier to see the structures of your organs on the
x-rays.

Before the x-rays are taken, you must drink 16 to 20 ounces (480 to 600
milliliters) of a milkshake-like drink. The drink contains a substance called
barium, which shows up well on x-rays.

An x-ray method called fluoroscopy tracks how the barium moves through your
esophagus, stomach, and small intestine. Pictures are taken while you sit or
stand in different positions.

The test most often takes around 3 hours but can take as long as 6 hours to
complete.

A GI series may include this test or a barium enema.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You may have to change your diet for 2 or 3 days before the test. In most
cases, you will not be able to eat for a period of time before the test.

Be sure to ask your health care provider if you need to change how you take
any of your medicines. Often you can continue taking the medicines you take by
mouth. Never make any changes in your medicines without first talking to your
provider.

You will be asked to remove all jewelry on your neck, chest, or abdomen before
the test.

## How the Test will Feel

The x-ray may cause mild bloating but no discomfort most of the time. The
barium milkshake feels chalky as you drink it.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is done to look for a problem in the structure or function of your
esophagus, stomach, or small intestine.

## Normal Results

A normal result shows that the esophagus, stomach, and small intestine are
normal in size, shape, and movement.

Normal value ranges may vary depending on the lab doing the test. Talk to your
provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results in the esophagus may indicate the following problems:

    * Achalasia
    * Diverticula
    * Esophageal cancer
    * Esophageal narrowing (stricture) - benign
    * Hiatal hernia
    * Ulcers

Abnormal results in the stomach may indicate the following problems:

    * Gastric cancer
    * Gastric ulcer \- benign
    * Gastritis
    * Polyps (a tumor that is usually noncancerous and grows on the mucus membrane)
    * Pyloric stenosis (narrowing)

Abnormal results in the small intestine may indicate the following problems:

    * Malabsorption syndrome
    * Swelling and irritation (inflammation) of the small intestines
    * Tumors
    * Ulcers

The test may also be done for the following conditions:

    * Annular pancreas
    * Duodenal ulcer
    * Gastroesophageal reflux disease
    * Gastroparesis
    * Intestinal obstruction
    * Lower esophageal ring
    * Primary or idiopathic intestinal pseudo-obstruction

## Risks

You are exposed to a low level of radiation during this test, which carries a
very small risk for cancer. X-rays are monitored and regulated to provide the
minimum amount of radiation exposure needed to produce the image. Most experts
feel that the risk is low compared with the benefits.

Pregnant women should not have this test in most cases. Children are more
sensitive to the risks for x-rays.

Barium may cause constipation. Talk to your provider if the barium has not
passed through your system by 2 or 3 days after the exam.

## Considerations

The upper GI series should be done after other x-ray procedures. This is
because the barium that remains in the body may block details in other imaging
tests.

## Alternative Names

GI series; Barium swallow x-ray; Upper GI series

## Images

    * ![Barium ingestion](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10002t.jpg)Barium ingestion
    * ![Stomach cancer, X-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1202t.jpg)Stomach cancer, x-ray
    * ![Stomach ulcer, X-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1207t.jpg)Stomach ulcer, x-ray
    * ![Volvulus - X-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1208t.jpg)Volvulus - x-ray
    * ![Small intestine](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19221t.jpg)Small intestine

## References

Caroline DF, Dass C, Agosto O. The stomach. In: Adam A, Dixon AK, Gillard JH,
Schaefer-Prokop CM, eds. _Grainger & Allison's Diagnostic Radiology: A
Textbook of Medical Imaging_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill
Livingstone; 2015:chap 27.

Kim DH, Pickhardt PJ. Diagnostic imaging procedures in gastroenterology. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 133.

## Review Date 10/27/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Digestive
System](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DigestiveDiseasesandIntestinalCancer_thumb.jpg)Digestive
Diseases _Read more_

![Esophagus](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EsopagusDisordersandEsophagealCancer_thumb.jpg)Esophagus
Disorders _Read more_

![Small Intestine
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SmallIntestineDiseases_thumb.jpg)Small
Intestine Disorders _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

