Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000231.htm    
                                Description: An esophageal perforation is a hole in the esophagus. The esophagus is the tube food passes through as it goes from the mouth to the stomach.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Esophageal perforation

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000231.htm

# Esophageal perforation

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An esophageal perforation is a hole in the esophagus. The esophagus is the
tube food passes through as it goes from the mouth to the stomach.

## Causes

The contents of the esophagus can pass into the surrounding area in the chest
(mediastinum), when there is a hole in the esophagus. This often results in
infection of the mediastinum (mediastinitis).

The most common cause of an esophageal perforation is injury during a medical
procedure. However, the use of flexible instruments has made this problem
rare.

The esophagus may also become perforated as the result of:

    * A tumor
    * Gastric reflux with ulceration
    * Previous surgery on the esophagus
    * Swallowing a foreign object or caustic chemicals, such as household cleaners, disk batteries, and battery acid
    * Trauma or injury to the chest and esophagus
    * Violent vomiting (Boerhaave syndrome)

Less common causes include injuries to the esophagus area (blunt trauma) and
injury to the esophagus during surgery of another organ near the esophagus.

## Symptoms

The main symptom is pain when the problem first occurs.

A perforation in the middle or lower most part of the esophagus may cause:

    * Swallowing problems
    * Chest pain
    * Breathing problems

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will look for:

    * Fast breathing.
    * Fever.
    * Low blood pressure .
    * Rapid heart rate.
    * Neck pain or stiffness and air bubbles underneath the skin if the perforation is in the top part of the esophagus. 

You may have a chest x-ray to look for:

    * Air in the soft tissues of the chest.
    * Fluid that has leaked from the esophagus into the space around the lungs.
    * Collapsed lung. X-rays taken after you drink a non-harmful dye can help pinpoint the location of the perforation. 

You may also have a chest CT scan to look for an abscess in the chest or
esophageal cancer.

## Treatment

You may need surgery. Surgery will depend on the location and size of the
perforation. If surgery is needed, it is best done within 24 hours.

Treatment may include:

    * Fluids given through a vein (IV)
    * IV antibiotics to prevent or treat infection
    * Draining of fluid around the lungs with a chest tube
    * Mediastinoscopy to remove fluid that has collected in the area behind the breastbone and between the lungs (mediastinum)

A stent may be placed in the esophagus if only a small amount of fluid has
leaked. This may help avoid surgery.

A perforation in the uppermost (neck region) part of the esophagus may heal by
itself if youÂ do not eat or drink for a period of time. In this case, you
will need a stomach feeding tube or another way to get nutrients.

Surgery is often needed to repair a perforation in the middle or bottom
portions of the esophagus. The leak may be treated by simple repair or by
removing the esophagus, depending on the extent of the problem.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The condition can progress to shock, even death, if untreated.

Outlook is good if the problem is found within 24 hours of it occurring. Most
people survive when surgery is done within 24 hours. Survival rate goes down
if you wait longer.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Permanent damage to the esophagus (narrowing or stricture)
    * Abscess formation in and around the esophagus
    * Infection in and around the lungs 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Tell your provider right away if you develop the problem when you are already
in the hospital.

Go to the emergency room or call 911 if:

    * You have recently had surgery or a tube placed in the esophagus and you have chest pain, problems swallowing or breathing.
    * You have another reason to suspect that you may have esophageal perforation. 

## Prevention

These injuries, although uncommon, are hard to prevent.

## Alternative Names

Perforation of the esophagus; Boerhaave syndrome

## Images

    * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
    * ![Digestive system organs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8710t.jpg)Digestive system organs

## References

Maxwell R, Reynolds JK. The management of esophageal perforation. In: Cameron
JL, Cameron AM, eds. _Current Surgical Therapy_. 12th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:73-78.

Raja AS. Thoracic trauma. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds.
_Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 38.

## Review Date 10/23/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Esophagus](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EsopagusDisordersandEsophagealCancer_thumb.jpg)Esophagus
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

