Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000269.htm    
                                Description: A Mallory-Weiss tear occurs in the mucus membrane of the lower part of the esophagus or upper part of the stomach, near where they join. The tear may bleed.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Mallory-Weiss tear

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000269.htm

# Mallory-Weiss tear

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A Mallory-Weiss tear occurs in the mucus membrane of the lower part of the
esophagus or upper part of the stomach, near where they join. The tear may
bleed.

## Causes

Mallory-Weiss tears are most often caused by forceful or long-term vomiting or
coughing. They may also be caused by epileptic convulsions.

Any condition that leads to violent and lengthy bouts of coughing or vomiting
can cause these tears.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

    * Bloody stools
    * Vomiting blood (bright red) 

## Exams and Tests

Tests may include:

    * CBC, possibly showing low hematocrit
    * Esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD), more likely to be done when there is active bleeding 

## Treatment

The tear usually heals in a few days without treatment. The tear may also be
fixed by clips that are put in during an EGD. Surgery is rarely needed. Drugs
that suppress stomach acid (proton pump inhibitors or H2 blockers) may be
given, but it is not clear if they are helpful.

If blood loss has been great, blood transfusions may be needed. In most cases,
bleeding stops without treatment within a few hours.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Repeated bleeding is uncommon and the outcome is most often good. Cirrhosis of
the liver and problems with blood clotting make future bleeding episodes more
likely to occur.

## Possible Complications

Hemorrhage (loss of blood)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you begin vomiting blood or if you pass
bloody stools.

## Prevention

Treatments to relieve vomiting and coughing may reduce risk. Avoid excessive
alcohol use.

## Alternative Names

Mucosal lacerations - gastroesophageal junction

## Images

    * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
    * ![Mallory-Weiss tear](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18145t.jpg)Mallory-Weiss tear
    * ![Stomach and stomach lining](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8731t.jpg)Stomach and stomach lining

## References

Katzka DA. Esophageal disorders caused by medications, trauma, and infection.
In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's
Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 46.

Kovacs TO, Jensen DM. Gastrointestinal hemorrhage. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI,
eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 135.

## Review Date 10/23/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Esophagus](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EsopagusDisordersandEsophagealCancer_thumb.jpg)Esophagus
Disorders _Read more_

![Gastrointestinal
Bleeding](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GastrointestinalBleeding_thumb.jpg)Gastrointestinal
Bleeding _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

