Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001153.htm    
                                Description: Esophagitis is a condition in which the lining of the esophagus becomes swollen, inflamed, or irritated. The esophagus is the tube that leads from your mouth to the stomach. It is also called the food    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Esophagitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001153.htm

# Esophagitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Esophagitis is a condition in which the lining of the esophagus becomes
swollen, inflamed, or irritated. The esophagus is the tube that leads from
your mouth to the stomach. It is also called the food pipe.

## Causes

Esophagitis is often caused by stomach fluid that flows back into the food
pipe. The fluid contains acid, which irritates the tissue. This problem is
called gastroesophageal reflux (GERD). An autoimmune disorder called
eosinophilic esophagitis also causes this condition.

The following increase your risk for this condition:

    * Alcohol use
    * Cigarette smoking
    * Surgery or radiation to the chest (for example, treatment for lung cancer)
    * Taking certain medicines such as alendronate, doxycycline, ibandronate, risedronate, tetracycline, potassium tablets, and vitamin C, without drinking plenty of water
    * Vomiting
    * Lying down after eating a large meal 

People who have a weakened immune system may develop infections. Infections
may lead to swelling of the food pipe. Infection may be due to:

    * Fungi or yeast (most often Candida)
    * Viruses, such as herpes or cytomegalovirus

## Symptoms

The infection or irritation may cause the food pipe to become inflamed. Sores
called ulcers may form.

Symptoms may include:

    * Cough
    * Difficulty swallowing
    * Painful swallowing
    * Heartburn (acid reflux)
    * Hoarseness
    * Sore throat 

## Exams and Tests

The doctor may perform the following tests:

    * Esophageal manometry
    * Esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD), removing a piece of tissue from the food pipe for examination (biopsy)
    * Upper GI series (barium swallow x-ray) 

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the cause. Common treatment options are:

    * Medicines that reduce stomach acid in case of reflux disease
    * Antibiotics to treat infections
    * Medicines and diet changes to treat eosinophilic esophagitis
    * Medicines to coat the lining of the food pipe to treat damage related to pills

You should stop taking medicines that damage the lining of the esophagus. Take
your pills with plenty of water. Avoid lying down immediately after taking the
pill.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most of the time, the disorders that cause swelling and inflammation of the
food pipe, respond to treatment.

## Possible Complications

If not treated, this condition may cause severe discomfort. Scarring
(stricture) of the food pipe may develop. This can cause swallowing problems.

A condition called Barrett esophagus (BE) can develop after years of GERD.
Rarely, BE may lead to cancer of the food pipe.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have:

    * Frequent symptoms of esophagitis
    * Difficulty swallowing 

## Alternative Names

Inflammation - esophagus; Erosive esophagitis; Ulcerative esophagitis;
Eosinophilic esophagitis

## Patient Instructions

    * Anti-reflux surgery - discharge 

## Images

    * ![Esophagus and stomach anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8756t.jpg)Esophagus and stomach anatomy
    * ![Esophagus](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8871t.jpg)Esophagus

## References

Falk GW, Katzka DA. Diseases of the esophagus. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 138.

Graman PS. Esophagitis. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell,
Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases_ ,
Updated Edition. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 99.

Richter JE, Friedenberg FK. Gastroesophageal reflux disease. In: Feldman M,
Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and
Liver Disease: Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 44.

## Review Date 6/21/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Esophagus](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EsopagusDisordersandEsophagealCancer_thumb.jpg)Esophagus
Disorders _Read more_

![GERD](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GERD_thumb.jpg)GERD _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

