Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000267.htm    
                                Description: The tube that carries food from the mouth to the stomach is the esophagus or food pipe. Achalasia makes it harder for the esophagus to move food into the stomach.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Achalasia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000267.htm

# Achalasia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The tube that carries food from the mouth to the stomach is the esophagus or
food pipe. Achalasia makes it harder for the esophagus to move food into the
stomach.

## Causes

There is a muscular ring at the point where the esophagus and stomach meet. It
is called the lower esophageal sphincter (LES). Normally, this muscle relaxes
when you swallow to allow food to pass into the stomach. In people with
achalasia, it does not relax as well. In addition, the normal muscle activity
of the esophsagus (peristalsis) is reduced.

This problem is caused by damage to the nerves of the esophagus.

Other problems can cause similar symptoms, such as cancer of the esophagus or
upper stomach, and a parasite infection that causes Chagas disease.

Achalasia is rare. It may occur at any age, but is most common in people ages
25 to 60. In some people, the problem may be inherited.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

    * Backflow (regurgitation) of food
    * Chest pain, which may increase after eating, or may be felt as pain in the back, neck, and arms
    * Cough
    * Difficulty swallowing liquids and solids
    * Heartburn
    * Unintentional weight loss

## Exams and Tests

Physical exam may show signs of anemia or malnutrition.

Tests include:

    * Manometry,Â a test to measure if your esophagus is working properly.
    * EGD or upper endoscopy, a test to examine the lining of the stomach and esophagus.Â It uses a flexible tube and camera.
    * Upper GI x-ray.

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to reduce the pressure at the sphincter muscle and
allow food and liquids to pass easily into the stomach. Therapy may involve:

    * Injection with botulinum toxin (Botox) -- This may help relax the sphincter muscles. However, the benefit wears off within a few weeks or months.
    * Medicines, such as long-acting nitrates or calcium channel blockers -- These drugs can be used to relax the lower esophagus sphincter. But there is rarely a long-term solution to treat achalasia.
    * Surgery (called a myotomy) -- In this procedure, the lower sphincter muscle is cut.
    * Widening (dilation) of the esophagus -- This is done during EGD by stretching the LES with a balloon dilator.

Your health care provider can help you decide which treatment is best for you.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcomes of surgery and non-surgical treatments are similar. More than one
treatment is sometimes necessary.  

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Backflow (regurgitation) of acid or food from the stomach into the esophagus (reflux)
    * Breathing food contents into the lungs (aspiration), which can cause pneumonia
    * Tearing (perforation) of the esophagus

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You have trouble swallowing or painful swallowing
    * Your symptoms continue, even with treatment for achalasia

## Prevention

Many of the causes of achalasia cannot be prevented. However, treatment may
help to prevent complications.  

## Alternative Names

Esophageal achalasia; Swallowing problems for liquids and solids; Cardiospasm
- lower esophageal sphincter spasm  

## Images

    * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
    * ![Upper gastrointestinal system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9305t.jpg)Upper gastrointestinal system
    * ![Achalasia - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/15150t.jpg)Achalasia - series

## References

Falk GW, Katzka DA. Diseases of the esophagus In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 138.

Pandolfino JE, Kahrilas PJ. Esophageal neuromuscular function and motility
disorders. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _SleisengerÂ and
Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 43.

Rich HG. Achalasia. In: Ferri FF, ed. _Ferri's Clinical Advisor 2018_.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:12.e1-13.e1.

## Review Date 10/25/2017

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Esophagus](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EsopagusDisordersandEsophagealCancer_thumb.jpg)Esophagus
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

