Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003764.htm    
                                Description: Esophageal culture is a laboratory test that checks for infection-causing germs (bacteria, viruses, or fungi) in a sample of tissue from the esophagus.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Esophageal culture

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003764.htm

# Esophageal culture

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Esophageal culture is a laboratory test that checks for infection-causing
germs (bacteria, viruses, or fungi) in a sample of tissue from the esophagus.

## How the Test is Performed

A sample of tissue from your esophagus is needed. The sample is taken during a
procedure called esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD). The tissue is removed by
using a tiny tool or a brush at the end of the scope.

The sample is sent to a lab. There, it is placed in a special dish (culture)
and watched for the growth of bacteria, fungi, or viruses.

Other tests may be done to determine what medicine can best treat the
organism.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Follow your health care provider's instructions on how to prepare for EGD.

## How the Test will Feel

During EGD, you will receive medicine to relax you. You may have some
discomfort or feel like gagging as the endoscope is passed through your mouth
and throat into the esophagus. This feeling will go away shortly.

## Why the Test is Performed

Your doctor may order this test if you have signs or symptoms of an esophageal
infection or disease. You may also have the test if an ongoing infection does
not get better with treatment.

## Normal Results

A normal result means that no germs grew in the laboratory dish.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk to
your doctor about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An abnormal result means germs grew in the laboratory dish. This is a sign of
an infection of the esophagus, which may be due to bacteria, a virus, or a
fungus.

## Risks

Risks are related to the EGD procedure. Your provider can explain these risks.

## Alternative Names

Culture - esophageal

## Images

    * ![Esophageal tissue culture](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9303t.jpg)Esophageal tissue culture

## References

Koch MA, Zurad EG. Esophagogastroduodenoscopy. In: Fowler GC, ed. _Pfenninger
and Fowler's Procedures for Primary Care._ 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2020:chap 91.

Vargo JJ. Preparation for and complications of GI endoscopy. In: Feldman M,
Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and
Liver Disease: Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 41.

## Review Date 7/11/2019

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Esophagus](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EsopagusDisordersandEsophagealCancer_thumb.jpg)Esophagus
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

