Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000208.htm    
                                Description: A lower esophageal ring is an abnormal ring of tissue that forms where the esophagus (the tube from the mouth to the stomach) and stomach meet.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Lower esophageal ring

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000208.htm

# Lower esophageal ring

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A lower esophageal ring is an abnormal ring of tissue that forms where the
esophagus (the tube from the mouth to the stomach) and stomach meet.

## Causes

A lower esophageal ring is a birth defect of the esophagus that occurs in a
small number of people. It causes narrowing of the lower esophagus.

Narrowing of the esophagus may also be caused by:

    * Injury
    * Tumors
    * Esophageal stricture

## Symptoms

For most people, lower esophageal ring does not cause symptoms.

The most common symptom is the feeling that food (especially solid food) is
stuck in the lower neck or under the breastbone (sternum).

## Exams and Tests

Tests that show the lower esophageal ring include:

    * EGD (esophagogastroduodenoscopy)
    * Upper GI (x-ray with barium)

## Treatment

A device called a dilator is passed through the narrowed areaÂ to stretch the
ring. Sometimes, a balloon is placed in the area and inflated, to help widen
the ring.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Swallowing problems may return. You may need repeat treatment.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have swallowing problems.

## Alternative Names

Esophagogastric ring; Schatzki's ring; Dysphagia - esophageal ring; Swallowing
problems - esophageal ring

## Images

    * ![Schatzki ring - x-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1197t.jpg)Schatzki ring - x-ray
    * ![Upper gastrointestinal system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9305t.jpg)Upper gastrointestinal system

## References

Devault KR. Symptoms of esophageal disease. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt
LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 13.

Madanick R, Orlando RC. Anatomy, histology, embryology, and developmental
anomalies of the esophagus. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds.
_Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 42.

## Review Date 10/22/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Esophagus](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EsopagusDisordersandEsophagealCancer_thumb.jpg)Esophagus
Disorders _Read more_

![GERD](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GERD_thumb.jpg)GERD _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

