Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000294.htm    
                                Description: You had surgery to remove part, or all, of your esophagus. This is the tube that moves food from the throat to the stomach. The remaining part of your esophagus was reconnected to your stomach.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Diet and eating after esophagectomy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000294.htm

# Diet and eating after esophagectomy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You had surgery to remove part, or all, of your esophagus. This is the tube
that moves food from the throat to the stomach. The remaining part of your
esophagus was reconnected to your stomach.

## What to Expect at Home

You will probably have a feeding tube for 1 to 2 months after surgery. This
will help you get enough calories so that you start to gain weight. You will
also be on a special diet when you first get home.

## Self-care

If you have a feeding tube (PEG tube) that goes directly into your intestine:

    * You may only use it at night or for periods during the day. You can still go about your daytime activities.
    * A nurse or dietitian will teach you how to prepare the liquid diet for the feeding tube and how much to use.
    * Follow instructions on how to care for the tube. This includes flushing the tube with water before and after feedings and replacing the dressing around the tube. You will also be taught how to clean the skin around the tube. 

You may have diarrhea when you are using a feeding tube, or even when you
start eating regular foods again.

    * If specific foods are causing your diarrhea, try to avoid these foods.
    * If you have too many loose bowel movements, try psyllium powder (Metamucil) mixed with water or orange juice. You can either drink it or put it through your feeding tube. It will add bulk to your stool and make it more solid.
    * Ask your doctor about medicines that may help with diarrhea. Never start these medicines without first talking to your doctor. 

What you will be eating:

    * You will be on a liquid diet at first. Then you may eat soft foods for the first 4 to 8 weeks after surgery. A soft diet contains only foods that are mushy and do not need much chewing.
    * When you are back to a normal diet, be careful eating steak and other dense meats because they may be hard to swallow. Cut them into very small pieces and chew them well. 

Drink fluids 30 minutes after you eat solid food. Take 30 to 60 minutes to
finish a drink.

Sit in a chair when you eat or drink. DO NOT eat or drink when you are lying
down. Stand or sit upright for 1 hour after eating or drinking because gravity
helps food and liquid move downward.

Eat and drink small amounts:

    * In the first 2 to 4 weeks, eat or drink no more than 1 cup (240 milliliters) at a time. It is OK to eat more than 3 times and even up to 6 times a day.
    * Your stomach will stay smaller than it was before surgery. Eating smaller meals throughout the day instead of 3 larger meals will be easier. 

## Alternative Names

Esophagectomy - diet; Post-esophagectomy diet

## References

Spicer JD, Dhupar R, Kim JY, Sepesi B, Hofstetter W. Esophagus. In: Townsend
CM, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery: The
Biological Basis of Modern Surgical Practice_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 41.

## Read More

    * Esophagectomy - minimally invasive
    * Esophagectomy - open

## Patient Instructions

    * Diet and eating after esophagectomy
    * Esophagectomy - discharge 

## Review Date 1/31/2019

Updated by: Mary C. Mancini, MD, PhD, Director, Cardiothoracic Surgery,
Christus Highland Medical Center, Shreveport, LA. Review provided by VeriMed
Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Esophageal Cancer
    * Esophagus Disorders

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

