Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000961.htm    
                                Description: Esophageal atresia is a digestive disorder in which the esophagus does not develop properly. The esophagus is the tube that normally carries food from the mouth to the stomach.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Esophageal atresia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000961.htm

# Esophageal atresia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Esophageal atresia is a digestive disorder in which the esophagus does not
develop properly. The esophagus is the tube that normally carries food from
the mouth to the stomach.

## Causes

Esophageal atresia (EA) is a congenital defect. This means it occurs before
birth. There are several types. In most cases, the upper esophagus ends and
does not connect with the lower esophagus and stomach.

Most infants with EA have another defect called tracheoesophageal fistula
(TEF). This is an abnormal connection between the esophagus and the windpipe
(trachea).

In addition, infants with EA/TEF often have tracheomalacia. This is a weakness
and floppiness of the walls of the windpipe, which can cause breathing to
sound high-pitched or noisy.

Some babies with EA/TEF have other defects as well, most commonly heart
defects.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of EA may include:

    * Bluish coloration to the skin (cyanosis) with attempted feeding
    * Coughing, gagging, and choking with attempted feeding
    * Drooling
    * Poor feeding

## Exams and Tests

Before birth, a mother's ultrasound may show too much amniotic fluid. This can
be a sign of EA or other blockage of the baby's digestive tract.

The disorder is usually detected shortly after birth when the infant tries to
feed and then coughs, chokes, and turns blue. If EA is suspected, the health
care provider will try to pass a small feeding tube through the infant's mouth
or nose into the stomach. If the feeding tube can't pass all the way to the
stomach, the infant will likely be diagnosed with EA.

An x-ray is then done and will show any of the following:

    * An air-filled pouch in the esophagus.
    * Air in the stomach and intestine.
    * A feeding tube will appear coiled in the upper esophagus if it was inserted before the x-ray. 

## Treatment

EA is a surgical emergency. Surgery to repair the esophagus is done as soon as
possible after birth so that the lungs are not damaged and the baby can be
fed.

Before the surgery, the baby is not fed by mouth and will need intravenous
(IV) nutrition. Care is taken to prevent the travel of breathing secretions
into the lungs.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

An early diagnosis gives a better chance of a good outcome.

## Possible Complications

The infant may breathe saliva and other fluids into the lungs, causing
aspiration pneumonia, choking, and possibly death.

Other complications may include:

    * Feeding problems
    * Reflux (the repeated bringing up of food from the stomach) after surgery
    * Narrowing (stricture) of the esophagus due to scarring from surgery

Prematurity may complicate the condition.Â As noted above, there may also be
defects in other areas of the body.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

This disorder is usually diagnosed shortly after birth.

Call your baby's provider right away if the baby vomits repeatedly after
feedings, or if the baby develops breathing difficulties.

## Images

    * ![Tracheoesophageal fistula repair - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10314t.jpg)Tracheoesophageal fistula repair - series

## References

Madanick R, Orlando RC. Anatomy, histology, embryology, and developmental
anomalies of the esophagus. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds.
_Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 42.

Rothenberg SS. Esophageal atresia and tracheoesophageal fistula malformations.
In: Holcomb GW, Murphy JP, St. Peter SD, eds. _Holcomb and Ashcraft's
Pediatric Surgery_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2020:chap 27.

Wolf RB. Abdominal imaging. In: Resnik R, Lockwood CJ, Moore TR, Greene MF,
Copel JA, Silver RM, eds. _Creasy and Resnik's Maternal-Fetal Medicine:
Principles and Practice_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2019:chap 26.

## Review Date 8/25/2019

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Esophagus](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EsopagusDisordersandEsophagealCancer_thumb.jpg)Esophagus
Disorders _Read more_

![Fistulas](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Fistulas_thumb.jpg)Fistulas _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

