Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000241.htm    
                                Description: You had surgery to remove part, or all, of your esophagus (food tube). The remaining part of your esophagus and your stomach were rejoined.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Esophagectomy - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000241.htm

# Esophagectomy - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You had surgery to remove part, or all, of your esophagus (food tube). The
remaining part of your esophagus and your stomach were rejoined.

Now that you're going home, follow your health care provider's instructions on
how to care for yourself at home while you heal. Use the information below as
a reminder.

## When You're in the Hospital

If you had surgery that used a laparoscope, several small cuts (incisions)
were made in your upper belly, chest, or neck. If you had open surgery, larger
cuts were made in your belly, chest, or neck.

## What to Expect at Home

You may be sent home with a drainage tube in your neck. This will be removed
by your surgeon during an office visit.

You may have a feeding tube for 1 to 2 months after surgery. This will help
you get enough calories to help you gain weight. You will also be on a special
diet when you first get home.

Your stools may be looser and you may have bowel movements more often than
before surgery.

## Activity

Ask your surgeon how much weight is safe for you to lift. You may be told not
to lift or carry anything heavier than 10 pounds (4.5 kilograms).

You may walk 2 or 3 times a day, go up or down stairs, or ride in a car. Be
sure to rest after being active. If it hurts when you do something, stop doing
that activity.

Make sure your home is safe as you are recovering. For example, remove throw
rugs to prevent tripping and falling. In the bathroom, install safety bars to
help you get in and out of the tub or shower.

Your doctor will give you a prescription for pain medicines. Get it filled on
your way home from the hospital so you have it when you need it. Take the
medicine when you start having pain. Waiting too long will allow your pain to
get worse than it should.

## Wound Care

Change your dressings (bandages) every day until your surgeon says you no
longer need to keep your incisions bandaged.

Follow instructions for when you can start bathing. Your surgeon may say it is
ok to remove the wound dressings and take a shower if sutures (stitches),
staples, or glue were used to close your skin. DO NOT try to wash off the thin
strips of tape or glue. They will come off on their own in about a week.

DO NOT soak in a bathtub, hot tub, or swimming pool until your surgeon tells
you it is ok.

If you have large incisions, you may need to press a pillow over them when you
cough or sneeze. This helps ease the pain.

## Other Self-care

You may be using a feeding tube after you go home. You will likely use it only
at nighttime. The feeding tube will not interfere with your normal daytime
activities. Follow your surgeon's instructions on diet and eating.

Follow instructions for doing deep-breathing exercises after you get home.

If you are a smoker and are having trouble quitting, talk with your doctor
about medicines that you can help you quit smoking. Joining a stop-smoking
program can help, too.

You may have some skin soreness around your feeding tube. Follow instructions
on how to take care of the tube and the surrounding skin.

## Follow-up

After surgery, you will need close follow-up:

    * You will see your surgeon 2 or 3 weeks after getting home. Your surgeon will check your wounds and see how you are doing with your diet.
    * You will have an x-ray to make sure the new connection between your esophagus and stomach is ok.
    * You will meet with a dietitian to go over your tube feedings and your diet.
    * You will see your oncologist, the doctor who treats your cancer. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your surgeon if you have any of the following:

    * Fever of 101Â°F (38.3Â°C) or higher
    * Incisions are bleeding, red, warm to the touch, or have a thick, yellow, green, or milky drainage
    * Your pain medicines do not help ease your pain
    * It is hard to breathe
    * Cough that does not go away
    * Cannot drink or eat
    * Skin or the white part of your eyes turns yellow
    * Loose stools are loose or diarrhea
    * Vomiting after eating.
    * Severe pain or swelling in your legs
    * Burning sensation in your throat when you sleep or lay down 

## Alternative Names

Trans-hiatal esophagectomy - discharge; Trans-thoracic esophagectomy -
discharge; Minimally invasive esophagectomy - discharge; En bloc esophagectomy
- discharge; Removal of the esophagus - discharge

## References

Donahue J, Carr SR. Minimally invasive esophagectomy. In: Cameron JL, Cameron
AM, eds. _Current Surgical Therapy_. 12th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:1530-1534.

Spicer JD, Dhupar R, Kim JY, Sepesi B, Hofstetter W. Esophagus. In: Townsend
CM, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery: The
Biological Basis of Modern Surgical Practice_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 41.

## Read More

    * Esophageal cancer
    * Esophagectomy - minimally invasive
    * Esophagectomy - open
    * Tips on how to quit smoking

## Patient Instructions

    * Clear liquid diet
    * Diet and eating after esophagectomy
    * Gastrostomy feeding tube - bolus
    * Jejunostomy feeding tube 

## Review Date 1/31/2019

Updated by: Mary C. Mancini, MD, PhD, Director, Cardiothoracic Surgery,
Christus Highland Medical Center, Shreveport, LA. Review provided by VeriMed
Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Esophageal Cancer
    * Esophagus Disorders

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

