Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003884.htm    
                                Description: Esophageal manometry is a test to measure how well the esophagus is working.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Esophageal manometry

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003884.htm

# Esophageal manometry

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Esophageal manometry is a test to measure how well the esophagus is working.

## How the Test is Performed

During esophageal manometry, a thin, pressure-sensitive tube is passed through
your nose, down the esophagus, and into your stomach.

Before the procedure, you receive numbing medicine inside the nose. This helps
make the insertion of the tube less uncomfortable.

After the tube is in the stomach, the tube is pulled slowly back into your
esophagus. At this time, you are asked to swallow. The pressure of the muscle
contractions is measured along several sections of the tube.

While the tube is in place, other studies of your esophagus may be done. The
tube is removed after the tests are completed. The test takes about 1 hour.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You should not have anything to eat or drink for 8 hours before the test. If
you have the test in the morning, DO NOT eat or drink after midnight.

Tell your health care provider about all medicines you are taking. These
include vitamins, herbs, and other over-the-counter medicines and supplements.

## How the Test will Feel

You may have a gagging sensation and discomfort when the tube passes through
your nose and throat. You may also feel discomfort in your nose and throat
during the test.

## Why the Test is Performed

The esophagus is the tube that carries food from your mouth into the stomach.
When you swallow, muscles in your esophagus squeeze (contract) to push food
toward the stomach. Valves, or sphincters, inside the esophagus open to let
food and liquid through. They then close to prevent food, fluids, and stomach
acid from moving backward. The sphincter at the bottom of the esophagus is
called the lower esophageal sphincter, or LES.

Esophageal manometry is done to see if the esophagus is contracting and
relaxing properly. The test helps diagnose swallowing problems. During the
test, the doctor can also check the LES to see if it opens and closes
properly.

The test may be ordered if you have symptoms of:

    * Heartburn or nausea after eating (gastroesophageal reflux disease, or GERD)
    * Problems swallowing (feeling like food is stuck behind the breast bone) 

## Normal Results

The LES pressure and muscle contractions are normal when you swallow.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may indicate:

    * A problem with the esophagus that affects its ability to move food toward the stomach (achalasia)
    * A weak LES, which causes heartburn (GERD)
    * Abnormal contractions of the esophagus muscles that do not effectively move food to the stomach (esophageal spasm)

## Risks

Risks of this test include:

    * Slight nosebleed
    * Sore throat
    * Hole, or perforation, in the esophagus (this rarely happens) 

## Alternative Names

Esophageal motility studies; Esophageal function studies

## Images

    * ![Esophageal manometry](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8776t.jpg)Esophageal manometry

## References

Pandolfino JE, Kahrilas PJ. Esophageal neuromuscular function and motility
disorders. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and
Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 43.

Richter JE, Friedenberg FK. Gastroesophageal reflux disease. In: Feldman M,
Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and
Liver Disease: Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 44.

## Review Date 7/11/2019

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Esophagus](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EsopagusDisordersandEsophagealCancer_thumb.jpg)Esophagus
Disorders _Read more_

![GERD](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GERD_thumb.jpg)GERD _Read more_

![Problemas para
tragar](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SwallowingDisorders_thumb.jpg)Swallowing
Disorders _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

