Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007007.htm    
                                Description: Flushable reagent stool blood test is an at-home test to detect hidden blood in the stool.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Flushable reagent stool blood test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007007.htm

# Flushable reagent stool blood test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Flushable reagent stool blood test is an at-home test to detect hidden blood
in the stool.

## How the Test is Performed

This test is performed at home with disposable pads. You can buy the pads at
the drug store without a prescription. Brand names include EZ-Detect, HomeChek
Reveal, and ColoCARE.

You do not handle stool directly with this test. You simply note any changes
you see on a card and then mail the results card to your health care provider.

To do the test:

    * Urinate if you need to, then flush the toilet before having a bowel movement.
    * After the bowel movement, place the disposable pad in the toilet.
    * Watch for a change of color on the test area of the pad. Results will appear in about 2 minutes.
    * Note the results on the card provided, then flush the pad away.
    * Repeat for the next two bowel movements. 

The different tests use different ways to check for water quality. Check the
package for instructions.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Some medicines may interfere with this test.

Check with your provider about changes in your medicines you may need to make.
Never stop taking a medicine or change how you take it without first talking
to your provider.

Check test package to see if there are any foods you need to stop eating
before doing the test.

## How the Test will Feel

This test involves only normal bowel functions, and there is no discomfort.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is mainly performed for colorectal cancer screening. It may also be
done in the case of low levels of red blood cells (anemia).

## Normal Results

A negative result is normal. It means you have no evidence of gastrointestinal
bleeding.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different labs. Talk to your
provider about your test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results of the flushable pad mean there is bleeding present somewhere
in the digestive tract, which may be caused by:

    * Swollen, fragile blood vessels in the colon that may result in blood loss 
    * Colon cancer 
    * Colon polyps 
    * Enlarged veins, called varices, in the walls of the esophagus (the tube that connects your throat to your stomach) that bleed 
    * When the lining of the stomach or the esophagus becomes inflamed or swollen 
    * Infections in the stomach and intestines 
    * Hemorrhoids 
    * Crohn disease or ulcerative colitis 
    * Ulcer in the stomach or first part of the intestines 

Other causes of a positive test, which do not indicate a problem in the
gastrointestinal tract, include:

    * Coughing up and then swallowing blood 
    * Nose bleed

Abnormal test results require follow-up with your doctor.

## Risks

The test can have false-positive (the test indicates a problem when there
actually is none) or false-negative (the test indicates there is NOT a
problem, but there is) results. This is similar to other stool smear tests
which can also give false results.

## Alternative Names

Stool occult blood test - flushable home test; Fecal occult blood test -
flushable home test

## References

Blanke CD, Faigel DO. Neoplasms of the small and large intestine. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 193.

Bresalier RS. Colorectal cancer. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds.
_Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 127.

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. ColoSure test - stool. In: Chernecky, CC, Berger BJ,
eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO:
Elsevier Saunders; 2013:362.

Rex DK, Boland CR, Dominitz JA, et al. Colorectal cancer screening:
recommendations for physicians and patients from the U.S. Multi-Society Task
Force on Colorectal Cancer. _Am J Gastroenterol_. 2017;112(7):1016-1030. PMID:
28555630 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28555630.

Wolf AMD, Fontham ETH, Church TR, et al. Colorectal cancer screening for
average-risk adults: 2018 guideline update from the American Cancer Society.
_CA Cancer J Clin_. 2018;68(4):250-281. PMID: 29846947
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29846947.

## Review Date 1/4/2019

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Colorectal
Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ColorectalCancer_thumb.jpg)Colorectal
Cancer _Read more_

![Esophagus](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EsopagusDisordersandEsophagealCancer_thumb.jpg)Esophagus
Disorders _Read more_

![Stomach
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/StomachDisorders_thumb.jpg)Stomach
Disorders _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

