Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000289.htm    
                                Description: Esophageal spasms are abnormal contractions of the muscles in the esophagus, the tube that carries food from the mouth to the stomach. These spasms do not move food effectively to the stomach.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Esophageal spasm

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000289.htm

# Esophageal spasm

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Esophageal spasms are abnormal contractions of the muscles in the esophagus,
the tube that carries food from the mouth to the stomach. These spasms do not
move food effectively to the stomach.

## Causes

The cause of esophageal spasm is unknown. Very hot or very cold foods may
trigger spasms in some people.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

    * Problems swallowing or pain with swallowing
    * Pain in the chest or upper abdomen 

It can be hard to tell a spasm from angina pectoris, a symptom of heart
disease. The pain may spread to the neck, jaw, arms, or back

## Exams and Tests

Tests you may need to look for the condition include:

    * Esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD)
    * Esophageal manometry
    * Esophagogram (barium swallow x-ray) 

## Treatment

Nitroglycerin given under the tongue (sublingual) may help a sudden episode of
esophageal spasm. Long-acting nitroglycerin and calcium channel blockers are
also used for the problem.

Long-term (chronic) cases are sometimes treated with low-dose antidepressants
such as trazodone or nortriptyline to reduce symptoms.

Rarely, severe cases may need dilation (widening) of the esophagus or surgery
to control symptoms.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

An esophageal spasm may come and go (intermittent) or last for a long time
(chronic). Medicine can help relieve symptoms.

## Possible Complications

The condition may not respond to treatment.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have symptoms of esophageal spasm that
don't go away. The symptoms may actually be due to heart problems. Your
provider can help decide if you need heart tests.

## Prevention

Avoid very hot or very cold foods if you get esophageal spasms.

## Alternative Names

Diffuse esophageal spasm; Spasm of the esophagus; Distal esophageal spasm;
Nutcracker esophagus

## Images

    * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
    * ![Throat anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1118t.jpg)Throat anatomy
    * ![Esophagus](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8871t.jpg)Esophagus

## References

Falk GW, Katzka DA. Diseases of the esophagus. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 138.

Pandolfino JE, Kahrilas PJ. Esophageal neuromuscular function and motility
disorders. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and
Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 43.

## Review Date 10/23/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Esophagus](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EsopagusDisordersandEsophagealCancer_thumb.jpg)Esophagus
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

