Link: https://medlineplus.gov/cancerchemotherapy.html    
                                Description: Chemotherapy may help you fight cancer. Find out about the  types of chemotherapy, side effects, and the latest news about chemotherapy.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Cancer Chemotherapy

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/cancerchemotherapy.html

#  Cancer Chemotherapy

On this page

### Basics

  * Summary
  * Start Here

### Learn More

  * Living With
  * Related Issues
  * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

  * Health Check Tools

### Research

  * Clinical Trials
  * Journal Articles

### Resources

  * Reference Desk
  * Find an Expert

### For You

  * Children
  * Teenagers
  * Women
  * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Normally, your cells grow and die in a controlled way. Cancer cells keep
growing without control. Chemotherapy is drug therapy for cancer. It works by
killing the cancer cells, stopping them from spreading, or slowing their
growth. However, it can also harm healthy cells, which causes side effects.

You may have a lot of side effects, some, or none at all. It depends on the
type and amount of chemotherapy you get and how your body reacts. Some common
side effects are fatigue, nausea, vomiting, pain, and hair loss. There are
ways to prevent or control some side effects. Talk with your health care
provider about how to manage them. Healthy cells usually recover after
chemotherapy is over, so most side effects gradually go away.

Your treatment plan will depend on the cancer type, the chemotherapy drugs
used, the treatment goal, and how your body responds. Chemotherapy may be
given alone or with other treatments. You may get treatment every day, every
week, or every month. You may have breaks between treatments so that your body
has a chance to build new healthy cells. You might take the drugs by mouth, in
a shot, as a cream, or intravenously (by IV).

NIH: National Cancer Institute

## Start Here

  * Chemotherapy (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish
  * Chemotherapy and You: Support for People with Cancer ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
  * Chemotherapy to Treat Cancer ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish

## Living With

  * Eating Hints: Before, During, and After Cancer Treatment ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
  * Nutrition for the Person with Cancer during Treatment (American Cancer Society) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

  * Anemia (American Society of Clinical Oncology)
  * Anemia and Cancer Treatment ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
  * Appetite Loss and Cancer Treatment ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
  * Bleeding and Bruising (Thrombocytopenia) and Cancer Treatment ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)
  * Cancer Patients and Fungal Infections (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
  * Chemo Brain (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
  * Chemotherapy and Hair Loss: What to Expect during Treatment (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
  * Chemotherapy and Sex: Is Sexual Activity OK during Treatment? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
  * Chemotherapy and Your Mouth ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research) \- PDF
  * Chemotherapy Effects (American Cancer Society)
  * Chemotherapy Side Effects: A Cause of Heart Disease? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
  * Constipation and Cancer Treatment ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
  * Diarrhea and Cancer Treatment ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
  * Edema (Swelling) and Cancer Treatment ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)
  * Fatigue and Cancer Treatment ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)
  * Hair Loss (Alopecia) and Cancer Treatment ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
  * Infection and Neutropenia during Cancer Treatment ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
  * Low Blood Cell Counts: Side Effect of Cancer Treatment (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
  * Memory or Concentration Problems and Cancer Treatment ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
  * Mouth and Throat Problems during Cancer Treatment ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
  * Nausea and Vomiting Caused by Cancer Treatment (American Society of Clinical Oncology)
  * Nausea and Vomiting in People with Cancer ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)
  * Nerve Problems (Peripheral Neuropathy) and Cancer Treatment ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
  * Off-Label Drug Use (American Cancer Society)
  * Oral Complications of Chemotherapy and Head/Neck Radiation (PDQ) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
  * Pain in People with Cancer ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
  * Preventing Infections in Cancer Patients (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
  * Skin and Nail Changes during Cancer Treatment ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
  * Taste and Smell Changes (American Cancer Society)
  * Urinary and Bladder Problems ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute)

## Specifics

  * Central Venous Catheter (Central Line) (American Thoracic Society) \- PDF
  * Oral Chemotherapy: What You Need to Know (American Cancer Society)
  * Targeted Cancer Therapies ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
  * Vascular Access Procedures (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish

## Health Check Tools

  * Take 3 Steps Toward Preventing Infections During Cancer Treatment (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Clinical Trials

  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Cancer Chemotherapy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

  * Article: The different benefits and side effects of nivolumab combined with ipilimumab...
  * Article: Regulation of PD-L1 expression on cancer cells with ROS-modulating drugs.
  * Article: KRAS G12C Game of Thrones, which direct KRAS inhibitor will claim...
  * Cancer Chemotherapy -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

  * Dictionary of Cancer Terms ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish

## Find an Expert

  * American Cancer Society
  * Find a Cancer Doctor (American Society of Clinical Oncology)
  * Finding Treatment Centers (American Cancer Society)
  * National Cancer Institute ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish
  * NCI Designated Cancer Centers ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
  * Organizations That Offer Support Services ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish

## Children

  * Central Lines (Central Venous Catheters) (Nemours Foundation)
  * Chemotherapy (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
  * Chemotherapy (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
  * Implanted Ports (Nemours Foundation)
  * Peripherally Inserted Central Catheter (PICC Line) (Nemours Foundation)
  * Side Effects of Chemotherapy and Radiation (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation)
  * Tunneled Central Lines (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Teenagers

  * Chemotherapy (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Women

  * Sexual Health Issues in Women with Cancer ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

  * After chemotherapy - discharge (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Central venous catheter - dressing change (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Central venous catheter - flushing (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Central venous catheters - ports (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Chemotherapy and Your Mouth ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research) \- PDF
  * Low white blood cell count and cancer (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Oral mucositis - self-care (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Types of chemotherapy (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Cancer Chemotherapy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CancerChemo.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

  * After chemotherapy - discharge
  * Central venous catheter - dressing change
  * Central venous catheter - flushing
  * Central venous catheters - ports
  * Chemotherapy - what to ask your doctor
  * Low white blood cell count and cancer
  * Midline venous catheters - infants
  * Oral mucositis - self-care
  * Peripherally inserted central catheter - flushing
  * Types of chemotherapy

## Related Health Topics

  * Cancer
  * Cancer Alternative Therapies

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Cancer Chemotherapy is the
National Cancer Institute

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Cancer
Chemotherapy_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 2 April 2020 Topic last reviewed: 1 May 2017

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

