Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001143.htm    
                                Description: Barrett esophagus (BE) is a disorder in which the lining of the esophagus is damaged by stomach acid. The esophagus is also called the food pipe, and it connects your throat to your stomach.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Barrett esophagus

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001143.htm

# Barrett esophagus

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Barrett esophagus (BE) is a disorder in which the lining of the esophagus is
damaged by stomach acid. The esophagus is also called the food pipe, and it
connects your throat to your stomach.

People with BE have an increased risk for cancer in the area involved.
However, cancer is not common.

## Causes

When you eat, food passes from your throat to your stomach through the
esophagus. A ring of muscle fibers in the lower esophagus keeps stomach
contents from moving backward.

If these muscles do not close tightly, harsh stomach acid can leak into the
esophagus. This is called reflux or gastroesophageal reflux (GERD). It may
cause tissue damage over time. The lining becomes similar to that of the
stomach.

BE occurs more often in men than women. People who have had GERD for a long
time are more likely to have this condition.

## Symptoms

BE itself does not cause symptoms. The acid reflux that causes BE often leads
to symptoms of heartburn. Many people with this condition do not have any
symptoms.

## Exams and Tests

You may need an endoscopy if GERD symptoms are severe or come back after
treatment.

During the endoscopy, your health care provider may take tissue samples
(biopsies) from different parts of the esophagus. These samplesÂ help detect
the condition. They also help look for changes that could lead to cancer.

Your provider may recommend a follow-up endoscopy to look for cell changes
that indicate cancer. People with BE are recommended to have follow-up
endoscopy every 3 to 5 years, or more if abnormal cells are found.

## Treatment

TREATMENT OF GERD

Treatment should improve acid reflux symptoms, and may keep BE from getting
worse. Treatment may involve lifestyle changes and medicines such as:

    * Antacids after meals and at bedtime
    * Histamine H2 receptor blockers
    * Proton pump inhibitors
    * Avoiding use of tobacco,Â chocolate, and caffeine

Lifestyle changes, medicines, and anti-reflux surgery may help with symptoms
of GERD. However, these steps will not make BE go away.

TREATMENT OF BARRETT ESOPHAGUS

Endoscopic biopsy can show changes in the cell that may be cancer. You
provider may advise surgery or other procedures to treat it.

Some of the following procedures remove the harmful tissue in your esophagus:

    * Photodynamic therapy (PDT) uses a special laser device, called an esophageal balloon, along with a medicine called Photofrin.
    * Other procedures use different types of high energy to destroy the precancerous tissue.
    * Surgery to remove the abnormal lining. 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Treatment should improve acid reflux symptoms and may keep BE from getting
worse. None of these treatments will reverse the changes that may lead to
cancer.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * Heartburn lasts for longer than a few days, or you have pain or problems swallowing.
    * You have been diagnosed with BE and your symptoms get worse.
    * You develop new symptoms (such as weight loss, problems swallowing).

## Prevention

Early detection and treatment of GERD may prevent BE.

## Alternative Names

Barrett's esophagus; GERD - Barrett; Reflux - Barrett

## Images

    * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
    * ![Esophagus and stomach anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8756t.jpg)Esophagus and stomach anatomy

## References

ASGE Standards of Practice Committee; Muthusamy VR, Lightdale JR, Acosta RD,
et al. The role of endoscopy in the management of GERD. _Gastrointest Endosc_.
2015;81(6):1305-1310. PMID: 25863867 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25863867.

DeMeester SR. The management of Barrett's esophagus. In: Cameron JL, Cameron
AM, eds. _Current Surgical Therapy_. 12th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:25-26.

Falk GW, Katzka DA. Diseases of the esophagus. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 138.

Katz PO, Gerson LB, Vela MF. Guidelines for the diagnosis and management of
gastroesophageal reflux disease. _Am J Gastroenterol_. 2013;108(3):308-328.
PMID: 23419381 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23419381.

Rich HG. Barrett esophagus. In: Ferri FF, ed. _Ferri's Clinical Advisor 2018_.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:172-174.e1.

Shaheen NJ, Falk GW, Iyer PG, Gerson LB; American College of Gastroenterology.
ACG clinical guideline: diagnosis and management of Barrett's esophagus. _Am J
Gastroenterol_. 2016;111(1):30-50. PMID: 26526079
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26526079.

Spechler SJ, Souza RF. Barrett's esophagus. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt
LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_.10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 45.

## Review Date 1/12/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Esophagus](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EsopagusDisordersandEsophagealCancer_thumb.jpg)Esophagus
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

