Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002968.htm    
                                Description: Spinal fusion is surgery to permanentlyÂ join together two or more bones in the spine so there is no movement between them. These bones are called vertebrae.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Spinal fusion

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002968.htm

# Spinal fusion

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Spinal fusion is surgery to permanentlyÂ join together two or more bones in
the spine so there is no movement between them. These bones are called
vertebrae.

## Description

You'll be given general anesthesia, which puts you into a deep sleep so you do
not feel pain during surgery.

The surgeon will make a surgical cut (incision) to view the spine. Other
surgery, such as a diskectomy, laminectomy, or a foraminotomy, is almost
always done first. Spinal fusion may be done:

    * On your back or neck over the spine. You may be lying face down. Muscles and tissue will be separated to expose the spine.
    * On your side, if you are having surgery on your lower back. The surgeon will use tools called retractors to gently separate, hold the soft tissues such as your bowels and blood vessels apart, and have room to work.
    * With a cut on the front of the neck, toward the side. 

The surgeon will use a graft (such as bone) to hold (or fuse) the bones
together permanently. There are several ways of fusing vertebrae together:

    * Strips of bone graft material may be placed over the back part of the spine.
    * Bone graft material may be placed between the vertebrae.
    * Special cages may be placed between the vertebrae. These implantable cages are packed with bone graft material. 

The surgeon may get the bone graft from different places:

    * From another part of your body (usually around your pelvic bone). This is called an autograft. Your surgeon will make a small cut over your pelvic bone and remove some bone from the back of the rim of the pelvis.
    * From a bone bank. This is called an allograft.
    * An artificial bone substitute can also be used. 

The vertebrae may also be fixed together with rods, screws, plates, or cages.
They are used to keep the vertebrae from moving until the bone grafts are
fully healed.

Surgery can take 3 to 4 hours.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Spinal fusion is most often done along with other surgical procedures of the
spine. It mayÂ be done:

    * With other surgical procedures for spinal stenosis, such as foraminotomy or laminectomy
    * After diskectomy in the neck 

Spinal fusion may be done if you have:

    * Injury or fractures to the bones in the spine
    * Weak or unstable spine caused by infections or tumors
    * Spondylolisthesis, a condition in which one vertebrae slips forward on top of another
    * Abnormal curvatures, such as those from scoliosis or kyphosis
    * Arthritis in the spine, such as spinal stenosis

You and your surgeon can decide when you need to have surgery.

## Risks

Risks for anesthesia and surgery in general include:

    * Reactions to medicines, breathing problems
    * Bleeding, blood clots, infection

Risks for this surgery include:

    * Infection in the wound or vertebral bones
    * Damage to a spinal nerve, causing weakness, pain, loss of sensation, problems with your bowels or bladder
    * The vertebrae above and below the fusion are more likely to wear away, leading to more problems later 
    * Leakage of spinal fluid that may require more surgery
    * Headaches

## Before the Procedure

Tell your doctor what medicines you are taking. These include medicines,
herbs, and supplements you bought without a prescription.

During the days before the surgery:

    * Prepare your home for when you leave the hospital.
    * If you are a smoker, you need to stop. People who have spinal fusion and continue to smoke may not heal as well. Ask your doctor for help.
    * Two weeks before surgery, your doctor may ask you to stop taking medicines that make it harder for your blood to clot. These include aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn), and other drugs like these.
    * If you have diabetes, heart disease, or other medical problems, your surgeon will ask you to see your regular doctor.
    * Talk with your doctor if you have been drinking a lot of alcohol.
    * Ask your surgeon which medicines you should still take on the day of the surgery.
    * Let your surgeon know about any cold, flu, fever, herpes breakout, or other illnesses you may have.

On the day of the surgery:

    * Follow instructions about not drinking or eating anything before the procedure.
    * Take the medicines you were told to take with a small sip of water.
    * Arrive at the hospital on time.

## After the Procedure

You may stay in the hospital for up to 3 to 4 days after surgery.

You will receive pain medicines in the hospital. You may take pain medicine by
mouth or have a shot or an intravenous line (IV). You may have a pump that
allows you to control how much pain medicine you get.

You will be taught how to move properly and how to sit, stand, and walk. You
will be told to use a "log-rolling" technique when getting out of bed. This
means that you move your entire body at once, without twisting your spine.

You may not be able to eat regular food for 2 to 3 days. You will be given
nutrients through an IV and will also eat softer food. When you leave the
hospital, you may need to wear a back brace or cast.

Your surgeon will tell you how to take care of yourself at home after spine
surgery. Follow instructions on how to take care of your back at home.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Surgery does not always improve pain and in some cases, can make it worse.
However, in some people surgery can be effective for severe pain that does not
get better with other treatments.

If you had chronic back pain before surgery, you will likely still have some
pain afterward. Spinal fusion is unlikely to take away all your pain and other
symptoms.

It is hard to predict which people will improve and how much relief surgery
will provide, even when using MRI scans or other tests.

Losing weight and getting exercise increase your chances of feeling better.

Future spine problems are possible after spine surgery. After spinal fusion,
the area that was fused together can no longer move. Therefore, the spinal
column above and below the fusion are more likely to be stressed when the
spine moves, and may cause problems later on.

## Alternative Names

Vertebral interbody fusion; Posterior spinal fusion; Arthrodesis; Anterior
spinal fusion; Spine surgery - spinal fusion; Low back pain - fusion;
Herniated disk - fusion; Spinal stenosis - fusion; Laminectomy - fusion;
Cervical spinal fusion; Lumbar spinal fusion

## Patient Instructions

    * Bathroom safety for adults
    * Preventing falls
    * Preventing falls - what to ask your doctor 
    * Spine surgery - discharge
    * Surgical wound care - open

## Images

    * ![Scoliosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1114t.jpg)Scoliosis
    * ![Spinal fusion - series - Normal anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/12705t.jpg)Spinal fusion - series

## References

Bennett EE, Hwang L, Hoh DJ, Ghogawala Z, Schlenk R. Indications for spine
fusion for axial pain. In: Steinmetz MP, Benzel EC, eds. _Benzel's Spine
Surgery: Techniques, Complication Avoidance, and Management_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 58.

Liu G, Wong HK. Laminectomy and fusion. In: Shen FH, Samartzis D, Fessler RG,
eds. _Textbook of the Cervical Spine_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2015:chap
34.

Wang JC, Dailey AT, Mummaneni PV, et al. Guideline update for the performance
of fusion procedures for degenerative disease of the lumbar spine. Part 8:
lumbar fusion for disc herniation and radiculopathy. _J Neurosurg Spine_.
2014;21(1):48-53. PMID: 24980585 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24980585.

## Review Date 7/7/2019

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Back Injuries](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BackInjuries_thumb.jpg)Back
Injuries _Read more_

![Bone Grafts](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BoneGrafts_thumb.jpg)Bone Grafts
_Read more_

![Herniated
Disk](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HerniatedDisk_thumb.jpg)Herniated Disk
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

