Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000414.htm    
                                Description: Many people injure their backs when they lift objects the wrong way. When you reach your 30    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Lifting and bending the right way

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000414.htm

# Lifting and bending the right way

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Many people injure their backs when they lift objects the wrong way. When you
reach your 30's, you are more likely to hurt your back when you bend to lift
something up or put it down.

This may be because you have injured the muscles, ligaments, or disks in your
spine in the past. Also, as we get older our muscles and ligaments become less
flexible. And, the disks that act as cushions between the bones of our spine
become more brittle as we age. All of these things make us more prone to
having a back injury.

## How you can Prevent Injury

Know how much you can safely lift. Think about how much you have lifted in the
past and how easy or hard that was. If an object seems too heavy or awkward,
get help with it.

If your work requires you to do lifting that may not be safe for your back,
talk to your supervisor. Try to determine the most weight you should have to
lift. You may need to meet with a physical therapist or occupational therapist
to learn how to safely lift this amount of weight.

Know how to lift in the correct way. To help prevent back pain and injury when
you bend and lift:

    * Spread your feet apart to give your body a wide base of support.
    * Stand as close as possible to the object you are lifting.
    * Bend at your knees, not at your waist or back.
    * Tighten your stomach muscles as you lift the object up or lower it down.
    * Hold the object as close to your body as you can.
    * Slowly lift, using your muscles in your hips and knees.
    * As you stand up with the object, DO NOT bend forward.
    * DO NOT twist your back while you bend to reach the object, lift the object, or carry the object.
    * Squat as you set the object down, using the muscles in your knees and hips. Keep your back straight when you squat down. 

## Alternative Names

Nonspecific back pain - lifting; Backache - lifting; Sciatica - lifting;
Lumbar pain - lifting; Chronic back pain - lifting; Herniated disk - lifting;
Slipped disk - lifting

## Images

    * ![Backaches](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9093t.jpg)Backaches
    * ![Herniated lumbar disk](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9540t.jpg)Herniated lumbar disk

## References

Hertel J, Onate J, Kaminski TW. Injury prevention. In: Miller MD, Thompson SR,
eds. _DeLee Drez & Miller's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine_. 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2020:chap 34.

Lemmon R, Leonard J. Neck and back pain. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP, eds.
_Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 31.

## Review Date 7/7/2019

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Back Injuries

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

