Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/presentations/100121_1.htm    
                                Description: The vertebrae are the bones that make up the spinal column, which surrounds and protects the spinal cord. The intervertebral disks are soft tissues that sit between each vertebrae and act as cushions between    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Spinal fusion - series--Normal anatomy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/presentations/100121.htm

# Spinal fusion - series--Normal anatomy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

    * Go to slide 1 out of 6
    * Go to slide 2 out of 6
    * Go to slide 3 out of 6
    * Go to slide 4 out of 6
    * Go to slide 5 out of 6
    * Go to slide 6 out of 6

![Spinal fusion - series - Normal
anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/12705.jpg)

## Overview

The vertebrae are the bones that make up the spinal column, which surrounds
and protects the spinal cord. The intervertebral disks are soft tissues that
sit between each vertebrae and act as cushions between vertebrae, and absorb
energy while the spinal column flexes, extends, and twists. Nerves from the
spinal cord exit the spinal column between each vertebra.

## Review Date 7/7/2019

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Back Injuries
    * Bone Grafts
    * Herniated Disk
    * Neck Injuries and Disorders
    * Scoliosis
    * Spinal Stenosis
    * Spine Injuries and Disorders

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

