Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000545.htm    
                                Description: Factor XII deficiency is an inherited disorder that affects a protein (factor XII) involved in blood clotting.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Factor XII (Hageman factor) deficiency

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000545.htm

# Factor XII (Hageman factor) deficiency

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Factor XII deficiency is an inherited disorder that affects a protein (factor
XII) involved in blood clotting.

## Causes

When you bleed, a series of reactions take place in the body that helps blood
clots form. This process is called the coagulation cascade. It involves
special proteins called coagulation or clotting factors. You may have a higher
chance of excess bleeding if one or more of these factors are missing or are
not functioningÂ as they should.

Factor XII is one such factor. A lack of this factor does not cause you to
bleed abnormally. But, the blood takes longer than normal to clot in a test
tube.

Factor XII deficiency is a rare inherited disorder.

## Symptoms

There are usually no symptoms.

## Exams and Tests

Factor XII deficiency is most often found when clotting tests are done for
routine screening.

Tests may include:

    * Factor XII assayÂ to measure the activity of factor XII
    * Partial thromboplastin time (PTT)Â to check how long it takes for blood to clot
    * Mixing study, a special PTT test to confirm factor XII deficiencyÂ 

## Treatment

Treatment is usually not needed.

## Support Groups

These resources can provide more information on factor XII deficiency:

    * National Hemophilia Foundation -- www.hemophilia.org/Bleeding-Disorders/Types-of-Bleeding-Disorders/Other-Factor-Deficiencies/Factor-XII
    * National Organization for Rare Disorders -- rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/factor-xii-deficiency
    * NIH Genetic and Rare Diseases Information Center -- rarediseases.info.nih.gov/diseases/6558/factor-xii-deficiency

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome is expected to be good without treatment.

## Possible Complications

There are usually no complications.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

The health care provider usually discovers this condition when running other
lab tests.

## Prevention

This is an inherited disorder. There is no known way to prevent it.

## Alternative Names

F12 deficiency; Hageman factor deficiency; Hageman trait; HAF deficiency

## Images

    * ![Blood clots](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9326t.jpg)Blood clots

## References

Gailani D, Wheeler AP, Neff AT. Rare coagulation factor deficiencies. In:
Hoffman R, Benz EJ, Silberstein LE, et al, eds. _Hematology: Basic Principles
and Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 137.

Hall JE. Hemostasis and blood coagulation. In: Hall JE, ed. _Guyton and Hall
Textbook of Medical Physiology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 37.

Ragni MV. Hemorrhagic disorders: coagulation factor deficiencies. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 174.

## Review Date 1/29/2019

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Bleeding
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

