Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003363.htm    
                                Description: Hemoglobinuria test is a urine test that checks for hemoglobin in the urine.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hemoglobinuria test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003363.htm

# Hemoglobinuria test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hemoglobinuria test is a urine test that checks for hemoglobin in the urine.

## How the Test is Performed

A clean-catch (midstream) urine sample is needed. The clean-catch method is
used to prevent germs from the penis or vagina from getting into a urine
sample. To collect your urine, you may get a special clean-catch kit from your
health care provider that contains a cleansing solution and sterile wipes.
Follow instructions exactly so that the results are accurate.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is necessary for this test. If the collection is being
taken from an infant, a couple of extra collection bags may be necessary.

## How the Test will Feel

The test involves only normal urination. There is no discomfort.

## Why the Test is Performed

Hemoglobin is a molecule attached to red blood cells. Hemoglobin helps move
oxygen and carbon dioxide through the body.

Red blood cells have an average life span of 120 days. After this time, they
are broken down into parts that can make a new red blood cell. This breakdown
takes place in the spleen, bone marrow, and liver. If the red blood cells
break down in the blood vessels, their parts move freely in the bloodstream.

If the level of hemoglobin in the blood rises too high, then hemoglobin begins
to appear in the urine. This is called hemoglobinuria.

This test may be used to help diagnose causes of hemoglobinuria.

## Normal Results

Normally, hemoglobin does not appear in the urine.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Hemoglobinuria may be a result of any of the following:

    * A kidney disorder called acute glomerulonephritis
    * Burns
    * Crushing injury
    * Hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS), a disorder that occurs when an infection in the digestive system produces toxic substances
    * Kidney infection
    * Kidney tumor
    * Malaria
    * Paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria, disease in which red blood cells break down earlier than normal
    * Paroxysmal cold hemoglobinuria, disease in which the body's immune system produces antibodies that destroy red blood cells
    * Sickle cell anemia
    * Thalassemia, disease in which the body makes an abnormal form or inadequate amount of hemoglobin
    * Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP)
    * Transfusion reaction
    * Tuberculosis

## Alternative Names

Urine - hemoglobin

## Images

    * ![Urine sample](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10011t.jpg)Urine sample

## References

Landry DW, Bazari H. Approach to the patient with renal disease. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2020:chap 106.

Riley RS, McPherson RA. Basic examination of urine. In: McPherson RA, Pincus
MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_.
23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 28.

## Review Date 7/4/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Bleeding
Disorders _Read more_

![Kidney Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyCancer_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Cancer _Read more_

![Kidney Tests](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyTests_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Tests _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

