Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003656.htm    
                                Description: Bleeding time is a medical test thatÂ measures how fast small blood vessels in the skin stop bleeding.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bleeding time

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003656.htm

# Bleeding time

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Bleeding time is a medical test thatÂ measures how fast small blood vessels in
the skin stop bleeding.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood pressure cuff is inflated around your upper arm. While the cuff is on
your arm, the health care provider makes two small cuts on the lower arm. They
are just deep enough to cause a tiny amount of bleeding.

The blood pressure cuff is immediately deflated. Blotting paper is touched to
the cuts every 30 seconds until the bleeding stops. The provider records the
time it takes for the cuts to stop bleeding.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Certain medicines can change blood test results.

    * Tell your provider about all the medicines you take.
    * Your provider will tell you if you need to temporarily stop taking any medicines before you have this test. This may include dextran and aspirin or other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
    * DO NOT stop or change your medicines without talking to your doctor first.

## How the Test will Feel

The tiny cuts are very shallow. Most people say it feels like a skin scratch.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test helps diagnose bleeding problems.

## Normal Results

Bleeding normally stops within 1 to 9 minutes. However, values may vary from
lab to lab.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Longer-than-normal bleeding time may be due to:

    * Blood vessel defect
    * Platelet aggregation defectÂ (clumping problem with platelets, which are parts of the blood that helps the blood clot)
    * Thrombocytopenia (low platelet count)

## Risks

There is a very slight risk of infection where the skin is cut.

## Images

    * ![Blood clot test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9119t.jpg)Blood clot test

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Bleeding time, ivy - blood. In: Chernecky CC, Berger
BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:181-266.

Pai M. Laboratory evaluation of hemostatic and thrombotic disorders. In:
Hoffman R, Benz EJ, Silberstein LE, et al, eds. _Hematology: Basic Principles
and Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 129.

## Review Date 1/29/2019

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Bleeding
Disorders _Read more_

![Platelet
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PlateletDisorders_thumb.jpg)Platelet
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

