Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001304.htm    
                                Description: Bleeding disorders are a group of conditions in which there is a problem with the body    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bleeding disorders

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001304.htm

# Bleeding disorders

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Bleeding disorders are a group of conditions in which there is a problem with
the body's blood clotting process. These disorders can lead to heavy and
prolonged bleeding after an injury. Bleeding can also begin on its own.

Specific bleeding disorders include:

    * Acquired platelet function defects
    * Congenital platelet function defects
    * Disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC)
    * Prothrombin deficiency
    * Factor V deficiency
    * Factor VII deficiency
    * Factor X deficiency
    * Factor XI deficiency (hemophilia C)
    * Glanzmann disease
    * Hemophilia A
    * Hemophilia B
    * Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP)
    * Von Willebrand disease (types I, II, and III) 

## Causes

![Blood clotting](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200077t.gif)Watch
this video about:Blood clotting

Normal blood clotting involves blood components, called platelets, and as many
as 20 different plasma proteins. These are known as blood clotting or
coagulation factors. These factors interact with other chemicals to form a
substance that stops bleeding called fibrin.

Problems can occur when certain factors are low or missing. Bleeding problems
can range from mild to severe.

Some bleeding disorders are present at birth and are passed down through
families (inherited). Others develop from:

    * Illnesses, such as vitamin K deficiency or severe liver disease
    * Treatments, such as the use of drugs to stop blood clots (anticoagulants) or the long-term use of antibiotics 

Bleeding disorders can also result from a problem with the number or function
of the blood cells that promote blood clotting (platelets). These disorders
can also be either inherited or develop later (acquired). The side effects of
certain drugs often lead to the acquired forms.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

    * Bleeding into joints or muscles
    * Bruising easily
    * Heavy bleeding
    * Heavy menstrual bleeding
    * Nosebleeds that do not stop easily
    * Excessive bleeding with surgical procedures
    * Umbilical cord bleeding after birth 

The problems that occur depend on the specific bleeding disorder, and how
severe it is.

## Exams and Tests

Tests that may be done include:

    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * Partial thromboplastin time (PTT)
    * Platelet aggregation test
    * Prothrombin time (PT)
    * Mixing study, a special PTT test to confirm the factor deficiency 

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the type of disorder. It may include:

    * Clotting factor replacement
    * Fresh frozen plasma transfusion
    * Platelet transfusion
    * Other treatments

## Support Groups

Find out more about bleeding disorders through these groups:

    * National Hemophilia Foundation: Other Factor Deficiencies -- www.hemophilia.org/Bleeding-Disorders/Types-of-Bleeding-Disorders/Other-Factor-Deficiencies
    * National Hemophilia Foundation: Victory for Women with Blood Disorders -- www.hemophilia.org/Community-Resources/Women-with-Bleeding-Disorders/Victory-for-Women-with-Blood-Disorders
    * US Department of Health and Human Services -- www.womenshealth.gov/a-z-topics/bleeding-disorders

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Outcome also depends on the disorder. Most primary bleeding disorders can be
managed. When the disorder is due to diseases, such as DIC, the outcome will
depend on how well the underlying disease can be treated.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Bleeding in the brain 
    * Severe bleeding (usually from the gastrointestinal tract or injuries) 

Other complications can occur, depending on the disorder.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you notice any unusual or severe bleeding.

## Prevention

Prevention depends on the specific disorder.

## Alternative Names

Coagulopathy

## References

Gailani D, Wheeler AP, Neff AT. Rare coagulation factor deficiencies. In:
Hoffman R, Benz EJ, Silberstein LE, et al, eds. _Hematology: Basic Principles
and Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 137.

Hall JE. Hemostasis and blood coagulation. In: Hall JE, ed. _Guyton and Hall
Textbook of Medical Physiology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 37.

Nichols WL. Von Willebrand disease and hemorrhagic abnormalities of platelet
and vascular function. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 173.

Ragni MV. Hemorrhagic disorders: coagulation factor deficiencies. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 174.

## Review Date 1/29/2019

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Bleeding
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

