Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001313.htm    
                                Description: Congenital fibrinogen deficiency is a very rare, inherited blood disorder in which the blood does not clot normally. It affects a protein called fibrinogen. This protein is needed for the blood to clot.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Congenital fibrinogen deficiency

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001313.htm

# Congenital fibrinogen deficiency

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Congenital fibrinogen deficiency is a very rare, inherited blood disorder in
which the blood does not clot normally. It affects a protein called
fibrinogen. This protein is needed for the blood to clot.

## Causes

This disease is due to abnormal genes. Fibrinogen is affected depending on how
the genes are inherited:

    * When the abnormal gene is passed down from both parents, a person will have a complete lack of fibrinogen (afibrinogenemia).
    * When the abnormal gene is passed down from one parent, a person will have either a reduced level of fibrinogen (hypofibrinogenemia) or a problem with the function of fibrinogen (dysfibrinogenemia). Sometimes, these two fibrinogen problems can occur in the same person.

## Symptoms

People with a complete lack of fibrinogen may have any of the following
bleeding symptoms:

    * Bruising easily
    * Bleeding from the umbilical cord just after birth
    * Bleeding in the mucous membranes
    * Bleeding in the brain (very rare)
    * Bleeding in the joints
    * Heavy bleeding after injury or surgery
    * Nosebleeds that do not stop easily 

People with a reduced level of fibrinogen bleed less often and the bleeding is
not as severe. Those with a problem with the function of fibrinogen often
don't have symptoms.

## Exams and Tests

If your health care provider suspects this problem, you will have lab tests to
confirm the type and severity of the disorder.

Tests include:

    * Bleeding time
    * Fibrinogen test and reptilase time to check fibrin level and quality
    * Partial thromboplastin time (PTT)
    * Prothrombin time (PT)
    * Thrombin time

## Treatment

The following treatments can be used for bleeding episodes or to prepare for
surgery:

    * Cryoprecipitate (a blood product containing concentrated fibrinogen and other clotting factors)
    * Fibrinogen (RiaSTAP)
    * Plasma (the liquid portion of the blood containing clotting factors) 

People with this condition should get the hepatitis B vaccine. Having many
transfusions raises your risk of getting hepatitis.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Excessive bleeding is common with this condition. These episodes may be
severe, or even fatal. Bleeding in the brain is a leading cause of death in
people with this disorder.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Blood clots with treatment
    * Development of antibodies (inhibitors) to fibrinogen with treatment
    * Gastrointestinal bleeding
    * Miscarriage
    * Rupture of the spleen
    * Slow healing of wounds 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider or seek emergency care if you have excessive bleeding.

Tell your surgeon before you have surgery if you know or suspect you have a
bleeding disorder.

## Prevention

This is an inherited condition. There is no known prevention.

## Alternative Names

Afibrinogenemia; Hypofibrinogenemia; Dysfibrinogenemia; Factor I deficiency

## References

Gailani D, Wheeler AP, Neff AT. Rare coagulation factor deficiencies. In:
Hoffman R, Benz EJ, Silberstein LE, et al, eds. _Hematology: Basic Principles
and Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 137.

Ragni MV. Hemorrhagic disorders: coagulation factor deficiencies. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 174.

## Review Date 1/29/2019

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Bleeding
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

