Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000837.htm    
                                Description: Hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia (HHT) is an inherited disorder of the blood vessels that can cause excessive bleeding.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000837.htm

# Hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia (HHT) is an inherited disorder of the
blood vessels that can cause excessive bleeding.

## Causes

HHT is passed down through families in an autosomal dominant pattern. This
means the abnormal gene is needed from only one parent in order to inherit the
disease.

Scientists have identified four genes involved in this condition. All of these
genes appear to be important for blood vessels to develop properly. A mutation
in any one of these genes is responsible for HHT.

## Symptoms

People with HHT can develop abnormal blood vessels in several areas of the
body. These vessels are called arteriovenous malformations (AVMs).

If they are on the skin, they are called telangiectasias. The most common
sites include the lips, tongue, ears, and fingers. The abnormal blood vessels
can also develop in the brain, lungs, liver, intestines, or other areas.

Symptoms of this syndrome include:

    * Frequent nosebleeds in children
    * Bleeding in the gastrointestinal tract (GI), including loss of blood in the stool, or dark or black stools
    * Seizures or unexplained, small strokes (from bleeding into the brain)
    * Shortness of breath
    * Enlarged liver
    * Heart failure
    * Anemia caused by low iron

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical examination and ask about
your symptoms. An experienced provider can detect telangiectases during a
physical examination. There is often a family history of this condition.

Tests include:

    * Blood gas tests
    * Blood tests
    * Imaging test of the heart called anÂ echocardiogram
    * Endoscopy, which uses a tiny camera attached to a thin tube to look inside your body
    * MRI to detect AVMs in the brain
    * CT or ultrasound scans to detect AVMs in the liver 

Genetic testing is available to look for changes in genes associated with this
syndrome.

## Treatment

Treatments may include:

    * Surgery to treat bleeding in some areas
    * Electrocautery (heating tissue with electricity) or laser surgery to treat frequent or heavy nosebleeds
    * Endovascular embolization (injecting a substance through a thin tube) to treat abnormal blood vessels in the brain and other parts of the body 

Some people respond to estrogen therapy, which can reduce bleeding episodes.
Iron may also be given if there is a lot of blood loss, leading to anemia.
Avoid taking blood-thinning medicines. Some drugs that affect blood vessel
development are being studied as possible future treatments.

Some people may need to take antibiotics before having dental work or surgery.
People with lung AVMs should avoid scuba diving to prevent decompression
sickness (the bends). Ask your provider what other precautions you should
take.

## Support Groups

These resources can provide more information on HHT:

    * Centers for Disease Control and Prevention -- www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/hht
    * Cure HHT -- curehht.org
    * National Organization for Rare Disorders -- rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/hereditary-hemorrhagic-telangiectasia

## Outlook (Prognosis)

People with this syndrome can live a completely normal lifespan, depending on
where in the body the AVMs are located.

## Possible Complications

These complications can occur:

    * Heart failure
    * High blood pressure in the lungs (pulmonary hypertension)
    * Internal bleeding
    * Shortness of breath 
    * Stroke

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you or your child has frequent nose bleeds or other
signs of this disease.

## Prevention

Genetic counseling is recommended for couples who want to have children and
who have a family history of HHT. If you have this condition, medical
treatments can prevent certain types of strokes and heart failure.

## Alternative Names

HHT; Osler-Weber-Rendu syndrome; Osler-Weber-Rendu disease; Rendu-Osler-Weber
syndrome

## Images

    * ![Circulatory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8747t.jpg)Circulatory system
    * ![Arteries of the brain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9441t.jpg)Arteries of the brain

## References

Brandt LJ, Aroniadis OC. Vascular disorders of the gastrointestinal tract. In:
Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's
Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 37.

Cappell MS, Lebwohl O. Hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia In: Lebwohl MG,
Heymann WR, Berth-Jones J, Coulson IH, eds. _Treatment of Skin Disease:
Comprehensive Therapeutic Strategies_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2014:chap 98.

McDonald J, Pyeritz RE. Hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia. In: Adam MP,
Ardinger HH, Pagon RA, et al, eds. _GeneReviews [Internet]_. Seattle, WA:
University of Washington, Seattle; 1993-2019. Updated February 2, 2017.
Accessed May 6, 2019.

## Review Date 4/24/2019

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, FACMG, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Arteriovenous
Malformations](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ArteriovenousMalformations_thumb.jpg)Arteriovenous
Malformations _Read more_

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Bleeding
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

