Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000550.htm    
                                Description: Factor V deficiency is a bleeding disorder that is passed down through families. It affects the ability of the blood to clot.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Factor V deficiency

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000550.htm

# Factor V deficiency

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Factor V deficiency is a bleeding disorder that is passed down through
families. It affects the ability of the blood to clot.

## Causes

Blood clotting is a complex process involving as many as 20 different proteins
in blood plasma. These proteins are called blood coagulation factors.

Factor V deficiency is caused by a lack of factor V. When certain blood
clotting factors are low or missing, your blood does not clot properly.

Factor V deficiency is rare. It may be caused by:

    * A defective factor V gene passed down through families (inherited)
    * An antibody that interferes with normal factor V function 

You can develop an antibody that interferes with factor V:

    * After giving birth
    * After being treated with a certain type of fibrin glue
    * After surgery
    * With autoimmune diseases and certain cancers 

Sometimes the cause is unknown.

The disease is similar to hemophilia, except bleeding into joints is less
common. In the inherited form of factor V deficiency, a family history of a
bleeding disorder is a risk factor.

## Symptoms

Excessive bleeding with menstrual periods and after childbirth often occurs.
Other symptoms can include:

    * Bleeding into the skin
    * Bleeding of the gums
    * Excessive bruising
    * Nosebleeds
    * Prolonged or excessive loss of blood with surgery or trauma
    * Umbilical stump bleeding 

## Exams and Tests

Tests to detect factor V deficiency include:

    * Factor V assay
    * Blood clotting tests, including partial thromboplastin time (PTT) and prothrombin time
    * Bleeding time

## Treatment

You will be given fresh blood plasma or fresh frozen plasma infusions during a
bleeding episode or after surgery. These treatments will correct the
deficiency temporarily.

## Support Groups

The following resources can provide more information on factor V deficiency:

    * National Hemophilia Foundation -- www.hemophilia.org/Bleeding-Disorders/Types-of-Bleeding-Disorders/Other-Factor-Deficiencies/Factor-V
    * NIH/NLM Genetics Home Reference -- ghr.nlm.nih.gov/condition/factor-v-deficiency

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outlook is good with diagnosis and proper treatment.

## Possible Complications

Severe bleeding (hemorrhage) could occur.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Go to the emergency room or call the local emergency number (such as 911) if
you have an unexplained or prolonged loss of blood.

## Alternative Names

Parahemophilia; Owren disease; Bleeding disorder - factor V deficiency

## Images

    * ![Blood clot formation](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19462t.jpg)Blood clot formation
    * ![Blood clots](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9326t.jpg)Blood clots

## References

Gailani D, Wheeler AP, Neff AT. Rare coagulation factor deficiencies. In:
Hoffman R, Benz EJ, Silberstein LE, et al, eds. _Hematology: Basic Principles
and Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 137.

Ragni MV. Hemorrhagic disorders: coagulation factor deficiencies. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 174.

Scott JP, Flood VH. Hereditary clotting factor deficiencies (bleeding
disorders). In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson
Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 476.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in Hematology
and Medical Oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Bleeding
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

