Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003235.htm    
                                Description: Bleeding into the skin can occur from broken blood vessels that form tiny red dots (called petechiae). Blood also can collect under the tissue in larger flat areas (called purpura), or in a very large    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bleeding into the skin

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003235.htm

# Bleeding into the skin

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Bleeding into the skin can occur from broken blood vessels that form tiny red
dots (called petechiae). Blood also can collect under the tissue in larger
flat areas (called purpura), or in a very large bruised area (called an
ecchymosis).

## Considerations

Aside from the common bruise, bleeding into the skin or mucous membranes is a
very significant sign and should always be checked out by a health care
provider.

Redness of the skin (erythema) should not be mistaken for bleeding. Areas of
bleeding under the skin do not become paler (blanch) when you press on the
area, like the redness from erythema does.

## Causes

Many things can cause bleeding under the skin. Some of them are:

    * Injury or trauma
    * Allergic reaction
    * Autoimmune disorders
    * Viral infection or illness affecting blood clotting (coagulation)
    * Thrombocytopenia
    * Medical treatment, including radiation and chemotherapy
    * Antiplatelet medicines such as clopidogrel (Plavix)
    * Bruise (ecchymosis)
    * Birth (petechiae in the newborn)
    * Aging skin (ecchymosis)
    * Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (petechiae and purpura)
    * Henoch-Schonlein purpura (purpura)
    * Leukemia (purpura and ecchymosis)
    * Medicines -- Anticoagulants such as warfarin or heparin (ecchymosis), aspirin (ecchymosis), steroids (ecchymosis)
    * Septicemia (petechiae, purpura, ecchymosis) 

## Home Care

Protect aging skin. Avoid trauma such as bumping or pulling on skin areas. For
a cut or scrape, use direct pressure to stop the bleeding.

If you have a drug reaction, ask your provider about stopping the drug.
Otherwise, follow your prescribed therapy to treat the underlying cause of the
problem.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your provider if:

    * You have sudden bleeding into the skin for no apparent reason
    * You notice unexplained bruising that does not go away 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will examine you and ask questions about the bleeding, such as:

    * Have you recently had an injury or accident?
    * Have you been ill lately?
    * Have you had radiation therapy or chemotherapy?
    * What other medical treatments have you had?
    * Do you take aspirin more than once a week?
    * Do you take Coumadin, heparin, or other "blood thinners" (anticoagulants)?
    * Has the bleeding occurred repeatedly?
    * Have you always had a tendency to bleed into the skin?
    * Did the bleeding start in infancy (for example, with circumcision)?
    * Did it start with surgery or when you had a tooth pulled?

The following diagnostic tests may be performed:

    * Coagulation tests including INR and prothrombin time
    * Complete blood count (CBC) with platelet count and blood differential
    * Bone marrow biopsy

## Alternative Names

Ecchymoses; Skin spots - red; Pinpoint red spots on the skin; Petechiae;
Purpura

## Images

    * ![Black eye](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1688t.jpg)Black eye

## References

Hayward CPM. Clinical approach to the patient with bleeding or bruising. In:
Hoffman R, Benz EJ, Silberstein LE, et al, eds. _Hematology: Basic Principles
and Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 128.

Juliano JJ, Cohen MS, Weber DJ. The acutely ill patient with fever and rash.
In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's
Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2020:chap 57.

Schafer AI. Approach to the patient with bleeding and thrombosis. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2020:chap 162.

## Review Date 5/13/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Bleeding _Read
more_

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Bleeding
Disorders _Read more_

![Bruises](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Bruises_thumb.jpg)Bruises _Read
more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

