Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000553.htm    
                                Description: Factor X (ten) deficiency is a disorder caused by a lack of a protein called factor X in the blood. It leads to problems with blood clotting (coagulation).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Factor X deficiency

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000553.htm

# Factor X deficiency

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Factor X (ten) deficiency is a disorder caused by a lack of a protein called
factor X in the blood. It leads to problems with blood clotting (coagulation).

## Causes

When you bleed, a series of reactions take place in the body that helps blood
clots form. This process is called the coagulation cascade. It involves
special proteins called coagulation, or clotting, factors. You may have a
higher chance of excess bleeding if one or more of these factors are missing
or are not functioning like they should.

Factor X is one such coagulation factor. Factor X deficiency is often caused
by an inherited defect in the factor X gene. This is called inherited factor X
deficiency. Bleeding ranges from mild to severe depending on how severe the
deficiency is.

Factor X deficiency can also be due to another condition or use of certain
medicines. This is called acquired factor X deficiency. Acquired factor X
deficiency is common. It can be caused by:

    * Lack of vitamin K (some newborns are born with vitamin K deficiency)
    * Buildup of abnormal proteins in the tissues and organs (amyloidosis)
    * Severe liver disease
    * Use of medicines that prevent clotting (anticoagulants such as warfarin) 

Women with factor X deficiency may first be diagnosed when they have very
heavy menstrual bleeding and bleeding after childbirth. The condition may be
first noticed in newborn boys if they have bleeding that lasts longer than
normal after circumcision.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

    * Bleeding into the joints
    * Bleeding into the muscles
    * Bruising easily
    * Heavy menstrual bleeding
    * Mucus membrane bleeding
    * Nosebleeds that do not stop easily
    * Umbilical cord bleeding after birth 

## Exams and Tests

Tests that may be done include:

    * Factor X assay
    * Partial thromboplastin time (PTT)
    * Prothrombin time (PT) 

## Treatment

Bleeding can be controlled by getting intravenous (IV) infusions of plasma or
concentrates of clotting factors. If you lack vitamin K, your doctor will
prescribe vitamin K for you to take by mouth, through injections under the
skin, or through a vein (intravenously).

If you have this bleeding disorder, be sure to:

    * Tell your health care providers before you have any kind of procedure, including surgery and dental work.
    * Tell your family members because they may have the same disorder but do not know it yet.

## Support Groups

These resources can provide more information on factor X deficiency:

    * National Hemophilia Foundation: Other Factor Deficiencies -- www.hemophilia.org/Bleeding-Disorders/Types-of-Bleeding-Disorders/Other-Factor-Deficiencies
    * National Organization for Rare Disorders --rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/factor-x-deficiency
    * NIH Genetics Home Reference -- ghr.nlm.nih.gov/condition/factor-x-deficiency

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome is good if the condition is mild or you get treatment.

Inherited factor X deficiency is a lifelong condition.

The outlook for acquired factor X deficiency depends on the cause. If it is
caused by liver disease, the outcome depends on how well your liver disease
can be treated. Taking vitamin K supplements will treat vitamin K deficiency.
If the disorder is caused by amyloidosis, there are several treatment options.
Your doctor can tell you more.

## Possible Complications

Severe bleeding or sudden loss of blood (hemorrhage) can occur. The joints may
get deformed in severe disease from many bleeds.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Get emergency medical help if you have an unexplained or severe loss of blood.

## Prevention

There is no known prevention for inherited factor X deficiency. When a lack of
vitamin K is the cause, using vitamin K can help.

## Alternative Names

Stuart-Prower deficiency

## Images

    * ![Blood clot formation](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19462t.jpg)Blood clot formation
    * ![Blood clots](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9326t.jpg)Blood clots

## References

Gailani D, Wheeler AP, Neff AT. Rare coagulation factor deficiencies. In:
Hoffman R, Benz EJ, Silberstein LE, et al, eds. _Hematology: Basic Principles
and Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 137.

Hall JE. Hemostasis and blood coagulation. In: Hall JE, ed. _Guyton and Hall
Textbook of Medical Physiology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 37.

Ragni MV. Hemorrhagic disorders: coagulation factor deficiencies. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 174.

## Review Date 1/29/2019

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Bleeding
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

