Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000548.htm    
                                Description: Factor VII (seven) deficiency is a disorder caused by a lack of a protein called factor VII in the blood. It leads to problems with blood clotting (coagulation).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Factor VII deficiency

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000548.htm

# Factor VII deficiency

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Factor VII (seven) deficiency is a disorder caused by a lack of a protein
called factor VII in the blood. It leads to problems with blood clotting
(coagulation).

## Causes

When you bleed, a series of reactions take place in the body that helps blood
clots form. This process is called the coagulation cascade. It involves
special proteins called coagulation, or clotting factors. You may have a
higher chance of excess bleeding if one or more of these factors are missing
or are not functioningÂ as they should.

Factor VII is one such coagulation factor. Factor VII deficiency runs in
families (inherited) and is very rare. Both parents must have the gene to pass
the disorder on to their children. A family history of a bleeding disorder can
be a risk factor.

Factor VII deficiency can also be due to another condition or use of certain
medicines. This is called acquired factor VII deficiency. It can be caused by:

    * Low vitamin K (some babies are born with vitamin K deficiency)
    * Severe liver disease
    * Use of medicines that prevent clotting (anticoagulants such as warfarin) 

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

    * Bleeding from mucus membranes
    * Bleeding into joints
    * Bleeding into muscles
    * Bruising easily
    * Heavy menstrual bleeding
    * Nosebleeds that do not stop easily
    * Umbilical cord bleeding after birth 

## Exams and Tests

Tests that may be done include:

    * Partial thromboplastin time (PTT)
    * Plasma factor VII activity
    * Prothrombin time (PT)
    * Mixing study, a special PTT test to confirm factor VII deficiencyÂ 

## Treatment

Bleeding can be controlled by getting intravenous (IV) infusions of normal
plasma, concentrates of factor VII, or genetically produced (recombinant)
factor VII.

You will need frequent treatment during bleeding episodes because factor VII
does not last for long inside the body. A form of factor VII called NovoSeven
can also be used.

If you have factor VII deficiency due to a lack of vitamin K, you can take
this vitamin by mouth, through injections under the skin, or through a vein
(intravenously).

If you have this bleeding disorder, be sure to:

    * Tell your health care providers before you have any kind of procedure, including surgery and dental work.
    * Tell your family members because they may have the same disorder but do not know it yet. 

## Support Groups

These resources can provide more information on Factor VII deficiency:

    * National Hemophilia Foundation: Other Factor Deficiencies -- www.hemophilia.org/Bleeding-Disorders/Types-of-Bleeding-Disorders/Other-Factor-Deficiencies
    * National Organization for Rare Disorders -- rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/factor-vii-deficiency
    * NLM Genetics Home Reference -- ghr.nlm.nih.gov/condition/factor-vii-deficiency

## Outlook (Prognosis)

You can expect a good outcome with proper treatment.

Inherited factor VII deficiency is a lifelong condition.

The outlook for acquired factor VII deficiency depends on the cause. If it is
caused by liver disease, the outcome depends on how well your liver disease
can be treated. Taking vitamin K supplements will treat vitamin K deficiency.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Excessive bleeding (hemorrhage)
    * Stroke or other nervous system problems from central nervous system bleeding
    * Joint problems in severe cases when bleeding happens often 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Get emergency treatment right away if you have severe, unexplained bleeding.

## Prevention

There is no known prevention for inherited factor VII deficiency. When a lack
of vitamin K is the cause, using vitamin K can help.

## Alternative Names

Proconvertin deficiency;Â Extrinsic factor deficiency; Serum prothrombin
conversion accelerator deficiency; Alexander disease

## Images

    * ![Blood clot formation](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19462t.jpg)Blood clot formation
    * ![Blood clots](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9326t.jpg)Blood clots

## References

Gailani D, Wheeler AP, Neff AT. Rare coagulation factor deficiencies. In:
Hoffman R, Benz EJ, Silberstein LE, et al, eds. _Hematology: Basic Principles
and Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 137.

Hall JE. Hemostasis and blood coagulation. In Hall JE, ed. _Guyton and Hall
Textbook of Medical Physiology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 37.

Ragni MV. Hemorrhagic disorders: coagulation factor deficiencies. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 174.

## Review Date 1/29/2019

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Bleeding
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

