Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003934.htm    
                                Description: A bone marrow biopsy is the removal of marrow from inside bone. Bone marrow is the soft tissue inside bones that helps form blood cells. It is found in the hollow part of most bones.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bone marrow biopsy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003934.htm

# Bone marrow biopsy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A bone marrow biopsy is the removal of marrow from inside bone. Bone marrow is
the soft tissue inside bones that helps form blood cells. It is found in the
hollow part of most bones.

Bone marrow biopsy is not the same as bone marrow aspiration. An aspiration
removes a small amount of marrow in liquid form for examination.

## How the Test is Performed

A bone marrow biopsy may be done in the health care provider's office or in a
hospital. The sample may be taken from the pelvic or breast bone. Sometimes,
another area is used.

Marrow is removed in the following steps:

    * If needed, you are given medicine to help you relax.
    * The provider cleans the skin and injects numbing medicine into the area and surface of the bone.
    * A biopsy needle is inserted into the bone. The center of the needle is removed and the hollowed needle is moved deeper into the bone. This captures a tiny sample, or core, of bone marrow within the needle. 
    * The sample and needle are removed.
    * Pressure and then a bandageÂ are applied to the skin.

A bone marrow aspiration may also be done, usually before the biopsy is taken.
After the skin is numbed, the needle is inserted into the bone, and a syringe
is used to withdraw the liquid bone marrow. If this is done, the needle will
be removed and repositioned. Or, another needle may be used for the biopsy.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Tell the provider:

    * If you are allergic to any medicines 
    * What medicines you are taking 
    * If you have bleeding problems 
    * If you are pregnant 

## How the Test will Feel

You will feel a sharp sting when the numbing medicine is injected. The biopsy
needle may also cause a brief, usually dull, pain. Since the inside of the
bone cannot be numbed, this test may cause some discomfort.

If a bone marrow aspiration is also done, you may feel a brief, sharp pain as
the bone marrow liquid is removed.

## Why the Test is Performed

YourÂ provider may order this test if you have abnormal types or numbers of
red or white blood cells or platelets on a complete blood count (CBC).

This test is used to diagnose leukemia, infections, some types of anemia, and
other blood disorders. It may also be used to help determine if a cancer has
spread or responded to treatment.

## Normal Results

A normal result means the bone marrow contains the proper number and types of
blood-forming (hematopoietic) cells, fat cells, and connective tissues.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be due to cancers of the bone marrow (leukemia, lymphoma,
multiple myeloma, or other cancers).

The results may detect the cause of anemia (too few red blood cells), abnormal
white blood cells, or thrombocytopenia (too few platelets).

Specific conditions for which the test may be performed:

    * A body-wide fungal infection (disseminated coccidioidomycosis)
    * A white blood cell cancer called hairy cell leukemia
    * Cancer of the lymph tissue (Hodgkin or non-Hodgkin lymphoma)
    * Bone marrow doesn't make enough blood cells (aplastic anemia)
    * Blood cancer called multiple myeloma
    * Group of disorders in which not enough healthy blood cells are made (myelodysplastic syndrome; MDS)
    * A nerve tissue tumor called neuroblastoma
    * Bone marrow disease that leads to an abnormal increase in blood cells (polycythemia vera)
    * Abnormal protein buildup in tissues and organs (amyloidosis)
    * Bone marrow disorder in which the marrow is replaced by fibrous scar tissue (myelofibrosis)
    * Bone marrow produces too many platelets (thrombocythemia)
    * White blood cell cancer called WaldenstrÃ¶m macroglobulinemia
    * Unexplained anemia, thrombocytopenia (low platelet count) or leukopenia (low WBC count)Â 

## Risks

There may be some bleeding at the puncture site. More serious risks, such as
serious bleeding or infection, are very rare.

## Alternative Names

Biopsy - bone marrow

## Images

    * ![Bone marrow aspiration](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1129t.jpg)Bone marrow aspiration
    * ![Bone biopsy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9754t.jpg)Bone biopsy

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Bone marrow aspiration analysis-specimen (biopsy,
bone marrow iron stain, iron stain, bone marrow). In: Chernecky CC, Berger BJ,
eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2013:241-244.

Vajpayee N, Graham SS, Bem S. Basic examination of blood and bone marrow. In:
McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by
Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 30.

## Review Date 4/2/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![white blood
cells](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LeukemiaWhiteBloodCell_thumb.jpg)Acute
Lymphocytic Leukemia _Read more_

![white blood
cells](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LeukemiaWhiteBloodCell_thumb.jpg)Acute
Myeloid Leukemia _Read more_

![Anemia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Anemia_thumb.jpg)Anemia _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

