Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003658.htm    
                                Description: Bone marrow is the soft tissue inside bones that helps form blood cells. It is found in the hollow part of most bones. Bone marrow aspiration is the removal of a small amount of this tissue in liquid form    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bone marrow aspiration

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003658.htm

# Bone marrow aspiration

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Bone marrow is the soft tissue inside bones that helps form blood cells. It is
found in the hollow part of most bones. Bone marrow aspiration is the removal
of a small amount of this tissue in liquid form for examination.

Bone marrow aspiration is not the same as bone marrow biopsy. A biopsy removes
a core of bone tissue for examination.

## How the Test is Performed

Bone marrow aspiration may be done in the health care provider's office or in
a hospital. The bone marrow is removed from your pelvic or breast bone.
Sometimes, another bone is selected.

Marrow is removed in the following steps:

    * If needed, you are given medicine to help you relax.
    * The provider cleans the skin and injects numbing medicine into the area and surface of the bone. 
    * A special needle is inserted into the bone. The needle has a tube attached to it, which creates suction. A small sample of bone marrow fluid flows into the tube. 
    * The needle is removed.
    * Pressure and then a bandage are applied to the skin.

The bone marrow fluid is sent to a laboratory and examined under a microscope.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Tell the provider:

    * If you are allergic to any medicines
    * If you are pregnant
    * If you have bleeding problems
    * What medicines you are taking

## How the Test will Feel

You will feel a sting and slight burning sensation when the numbing medicine
is applied. You may feel pressure as the needle is inserted into the bone, and
a sharp and usually painful sucking sensation as the marrow is removed. This
feeling lasts for only a few seconds.

## Why the Test is Performed

Your doctor may order this test if you have abnormal types or numbers of red
or white blood cells or platelets on a complete blood count.

This test is used to diagnose:

    * Anemia (some types)
    * Infections
    * Leukemia
    * Other blood cancers and disorders 

It may help determine whether cancers have spread or responded to treatment.

## Normal Results

The bone marrow should contain the proper number and types of:

    * Blood-forming cells
    * Connective tissues
    * Fat cells

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be due to cancers of the bone marrow, including:

    * Acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL)
    * Acute myelogenous leukemia (AML)
    * Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)
    * Chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) 

Abnormal results may also be due to other causes, such as:

    * Bone marrow doesn't make enough blood cells (aplastic anemia)
    * Bacterial or fungal infections that have spread throughout the body
    * Cancer of the lymph tissue (Hodgkin or non-Hodgkin lymphoma)
    * A bleeding disorder called idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP)
    * Blood cancer called (multiple myeloma)
    * Disorder in which the bone marrow is replaced by scar tissue (myelofibrosis)
    * Disorder in which not enough healthy blood cells are made (myelodysplastic syndrome; MDS)
    * Abnormally low amount of platelets, which help blood to clot (primary thrombocytopenia)
    * White blood cell cancer called WaldenstrÃ¶m macroglobulinemia

## Risks

There may be some bleeding at the puncture site. More serious risks, such as
serious bleeding or infection, are very rare.

## Alternative Names

Iliac crest tap; Sternal tap; Leukemia - bone marrow aspiration; Aplastic
anemia - bone marrow aspiration; Myelodysplastic syndrome - bone marrow
aspiration; Thrombocytopenia - bone marrow aspiration; Myelofibrosis - bone
marrow aspiration

## Images

    * ![Bone marrow aspiration](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1129t.jpg)Bone marrow aspiration
    * ![Sternum - view of the outside \(anterior\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1740t.jpg)Sternum - view of the outside (anterior)

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Bone marrow aspiration analysis â specimen (biopsy,
bone marrow iron stain, iron stain, bone marrow). In: Chernecky CC, Berger BJ,
eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2013:241-244.

Vajpayee N, Graham SS, Bem S. Basic examination of blood and bone marrow. In:
McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by
Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 30.

## Review Date 4/2/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Bone Marrow
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BoneMarrowDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bone
Marrow Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

