Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000010.htm    
                                Description: You have had a bone marrow transplant. A bone marrow transplant is a procedure to replace damaged or destroyed bone marrow with healthy bone marrow stem cells.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bone marrow transplant - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000010.htm

# Bone marrow transplant - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You have had a bone marrow transplant. A bone marrow transplant is a procedure
to replace damaged or destroyed bone marrow with healthy bone marrow stem
cells.

## What to Expect at Home

It will take 6 months or more for your blood counts and immune system to fully
recover. During this time, your risk for infection, bleeding, and skin
problems is higher.

Your body is still weak. It may take up to a year to feel like you did before
your transplant. You will likely get tired very easily. You may also have a
poor appetite.

If you received bone marrow from someone else, you may develop signs of graft-
versus-host disease (GVHD). Ask your health care provider to tell you what
signs of GVHD you should watch for.

## Mouth Care

Take good care of your mouth. Dry mouth or sores from medicines you need to
take for the bone marrow transplant can lead to an increase in bacteria in
your mouth. The bacteria can cause mouth infection, which can spread to other
parts of your body.

    * Brush your teeth and gums 2 to 3 times a day for 2 to 3 minutes each time. Use a toothbrush with soft bristles.
    * Let your toothbrush air dry between brushings.
    * Use a toothpaste with fluoride.
    * Floss gently once a day. 

Rinse your mouth 4 times a day with a salt and baking soda solution. (Mix one
half teaspoon, or 2.5 grams, of salt and one half teaspoon or 2.5 grams, of
baking soda in 8 ounces or 240 milliliters of water.)

Your doctor may prescribe a mouth rinse. DO NOT use mouth rinses with alcohol
in them.

Use your regular lip care products to keep your lips from drying and cracking.
Tell your doctor if you develop new mouth sores or pain.

Avoid foods and drinks that have a lot of sugar in them. Chew sugarless gums
or suck on sugar-free popsicles or sugar-free hard candies.

Take care of your dentures, braces, or other dental products.

    * If you wear dentures, put them in only when you are eating. Do this for the first 3 to 4 weeks after your transplant. DO NOT wear them at other times during the first 3 to 4 weeks.
    * Brush your dentures 2 times a day. Rinse them well.
    * To kill germs, soak your dentures in an antibacterial solution when you are not wearing them. 

## Preventing Infections

Take care not to get infections for up to 1 year or more after your
transplant.

Practice safe eating and drinking during cancer treatment.

    * DO NOT eat or drink anything that may be undercooked or spoiled.
    * Make sure your water is safe.
    * Know how to cook and store foods safely.
    * Be careful when you eat out. DO NOT eat raw vegetables, meat, fish, or anything else you are not sure is safe. 

Wash your hands with soap and water often, including:

    * After being outdoors
    * After touching body fluids, such as mucus or blood
    * After changing a diaper
    * Before handling food
    * After using the telephone
    * After doing housework
    * After going to the bathroom 

Keep your house clean. Stay away from crowds. Ask visitors who have a cold to
wear a mask, or not to visit. DO NOT do yard work or handle flowers and
plants.

Be careful with pets and animals.

    * If you have a cat, keep it inside.
    * Have someone else change your cat's litter box every day.
    * DO NOT play rough with cats. Scratches and bites can get infected.
    * Stay away from puppies, kittens, and other very young animals. 

Ask your doctor what vaccines you may need and when to get them.

## Other Self-care

Other things you can do to stay healthy include:

    * If you have a central venous line or PICC (peripherally inserted central catheter) line, know how to take care of it.
    * If your provider tells you your platelet count is low, learn how to prevent bleeding during cancer treatment.
    * Stay active by walking. Slowly increase how far you go based on how much energy you have.
    * Eat enough protein and calories to keep your weight up.
    * Ask your provider about liquid food supplements that can help you get enough calories and nutrients.
    * Be careful when you are in the sun. Wear a hat with a wide brim. Use sunscreen with SPF 30 or higher on any exposed skin.
    * DO NOT smoke. 

## Follow-up

You will need close follow-up care from your transplant doctor and nurse for
at least 3 months. Be sure to keep all your appointments.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your doctor if you have any of these symptoms:

    * Diarrhea that does not go away or is bloody.
    * Severe nausea, vomiting, or loss of appetite.
    * Cannot eat or drink.
    * Extreme weakness.
    * Redness, swelling, or draining from any place where you have an IV line inserted.
    * Pain in your abdomen.
    * Fever, chills, or sweats. These may be signs of infection.
    * A new skin rash or blisters.
    * Jaundice (your skin or the white part of your eyes looks yellow).
    * A very bad headache or a headache that does not go away.
    * A cough that is getting worse.
    * Trouble breathing when you are at rest or when you are doing simple tasks.
    * Burning when you urinate. 

## Alternative Names

Transplant - bone marrow - discharge; Stem cell transplant - discharge;
Hematopoietic stem cell transplant - discharge; Reduced intensity; Non-
myeloablative transplant - discharge; Mini transplant - discharge; Allogenic
bone marrow transplant - discharge; Autologous bone marrow transplant -
discharge; Umbilical cord blood transplant - discharge

## References

Bashir Q, Champlin R. Hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. In: Niederhuber
JE, Armitage JO, Doroshow JH, Kastan MB, Tepper JE, eds. _Abeloff's Clinical
Oncology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 30.

Be The Match website. Resources to help you thrive after transplant.
bethematch.org/for-patients-and-families/support-and-resources/educational-
resources/survive-resources. Accessed February 15, 2018.

Heslop HE. Overview and choice of donor of hematopoietic stem cell
transplantation. In: Hoffman R, Benz EJ, Silberstein LE, et al, eds.
_Hematology: Basic Principles and Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 103.

## Read More

    * Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL)
    * Acute myeloid leukemia - adult
    * Aplastic anemia
    * Bone marrow transplant
    * Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)
    * Chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML)
    * Graft-versus-host disease
    * Hodgkin lymphoma
    * Multiple myeloma
    * Non-Hodgkin lymphoma

## Patient Instructions

    * Bleeding during cancer treatment
    * Central venous catheter - dressing change
    * Central venous catheter - flushing 
    * Diarrhea - what to ask your doctor - child 
    * Diarrhea - what to ask your health care provider - adult
    * Drinking water safely during cancer treatment
    * Dry mouth during cancer treatment
    * Eating extra calories when sick - adults
    * Eating extra calories when sick - children
    * Oral mucositis - self-care
    * Peripherally inserted central catheter - flushing
    * Safe eating during cancer treatment

## Review Date 1/31/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Acute Lymphocytic Leukemia
    * Acute Myeloid Leukemia
    * Bone Marrow Diseases
    * Bone Marrow Transplantation
    * Childhood Leukemia
    * Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia
    * Chronic Myeloid Leukemia
    * Leukemia
    * Lymphoma
    * Multiple Myeloma
    * Myelodysplastic Syndromes

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

