Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003682.htm    
                                Description: Bone marrow culture is an examination of the soft, fatty tissue found inside certain bones. The bone marrow tissue produces blood cells. This test is done to look for an infection inside the bone marrow.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bone marrow culture

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003682.htm

# Bone marrow culture

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Bone marrow culture is an examination of the soft, fatty tissue found inside
certain bones. The bone marrow tissue produces blood cells. This test is done
to look for an infection inside the bone marrow.

## How the Test is Performed

The doctor removes a sample of your bone marrow from the back of your pelvic
bone or front of your breast bone. This is done with a small needle inserted
into your bone. The procedure is called a bone marrow aspiration or a biopsy.

The tissue sample is sent to a lab. It is placed into a special container
called a culture dish. The tissue sample is examined under a microscope each
day to see if any bacteria, fungi, or viruses have grown.

If any bacteria, fungi, or viruses are found, other tests may be done to learn
which drugs will kill the organisms. Treatment can then be adjusted based on
these results.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Follow any specific instructions from your health care provider on how to
prepare for the test.

Tell the provider:

    * If you are allergic to any medicines
    * What medicines you are taking
    * If you have bleeding problems
    * If you are pregnant

## How the Test will Feel

You will feel a sharp sting when numbing medicine is injected. The biopsy
needle may also cause a brief, usually dull, pain. Since the inside of the
bone cannot be numbed, this test may cause some discomfort.

If a bone marrow aspiration is also done, you may feel a brief, sharp pain as
the bone marrow liquid is removed.

Soreness at the site usually lasts from a few hours up to 2 days.

## Why the Test is Performed

You may have this test if you have an unexplained fever or if your provider
thinks you have an infection of the bone marrow.

## Normal Results

No growth of bacteria, viruses, or fungi in the culture is normal.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results suggest that you have an infection of the bone marrow. The
infection may be from bacteria, viruses, or fungi.

## Risks

There may be some bleeding at the puncture site. More serious risks, such as
serious bleeding or infection, are very rare.

## Alternative Names

Culture - bone marrow

## Images

    * ![Bone marrow aspiration](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1129t.jpg)Bone marrow aspiration

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Bone marrow aspiration analysis-specimen (biopsy,
bone marrow iron stain, iron stain, bone marrow). In: Chernecky CC, Berger BJ,
eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO:
Elsevier Saunders; 2013:241-244.

Vajpayee N, Graham SS, Bem S. Basic examination of blood and bone marrow. In:
McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by
Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 30.

## Review Date 1/29/2019

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bone Marrow
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BoneMarrowDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bone
Marrow Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

