Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000589.htm    
                                Description: Polycythemia vera (PV) is a bone marrow disease that leads to an abnormal increase in the number of blood cells. The red blood cells are mostly affected.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Polycythemia vera

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000589.htm

# Polycythemia vera

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Polycythemia vera (PV) is a bone marrow disease that leads to an abnormal
increase in the number of blood cells. The red blood cells are mostly
affected.

## Causes

PV is a disorder of the bone marrow. It mainly causes too many red blood cells
to be produced. The numbers of white blood cells and platelets may also be
higher than normal.

PV is a rare disorder that occurs more often in men than in women. It is not
usually seen in people under age 40. The problem is often linked to a gene
defect called JAK2V617F. The cause of this gene defect is unknown. This gene
defect is not an inherited disorder.

## Symptoms

With PV, there are too many red blood cells in the body. This results in very
thick blood, which can't flow through small blood vessels normally, leading to
symptoms such as:

    * Trouble breathing when lying down
    * Bluish skin
    * Dizziness
    * Feeling tired all the time
    * Excess bleeding, such as bleeding into the skin
    * Full feeling in the left upper abdomen (due to enlarged spleen)
    * Headache
    * Itchiness, especially after a warm bath
    * Red skin coloring, especially of the face
    * Shortness of breath
    * Symptoms of blood clots in veins near the skin surface (phlebitis) 
    * Vision problems
    * Ringing in the ears (tinnitus)
    * Joint pain

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. You may also have the
following tests:

    * Bone marrow biopsy
    * Complete blood count with differential
    * Comprehensive metabolic panel
    * Erythropoietin level
    * Genetic test for the JAK2V617F mutation
    * Oxygen saturation of the blood
    * Red blood cell mass
    * Vitamin B12 level

PV may also affect the results of the following tests:

    * ESR
    * Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH)
    * Leukocyte alkaline phosphatase
    * Platelet aggregation test
    * Serum uric acid

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to reduce the thickness of the blood and prevent
bleeding and clotting problems.

A method called phlebotomy is used to decrease blood thickness. One unit of
blood (about 1 pint, or 1/2 liter) is removed each week until the number of
red blood cells drops. The treatment is continued as needed.

Medicines that may be used include:

    * Hydroxyurea to reduce the number of red blood cells made by the bone marrow. This drug may be used when the numbers of other blood cell types are also high.
    * Interferon to lower blood counts.
    * Anagrelide to lower platelet counts.
    * Ruxolitinib (Jakafi) to reduce the number of red blood cells and reduce an enlarged spleen. This drug is prescribed when hydroxyurea and other treatments have failed.

Taking aspirin to reduce the risk of blood clots may be an option for some
people. But, aspirin increases the risk of stomach bleeding.

Ultraviolet-B light therapy can reduce the severe itching some people
experience.

## Support Groups

The following organizations are good resources for information on polycythemia
vera:

    * National Organization for Rare Disorders -- rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/polycythemia-vera
    * NIH Genetic and Rare Diseases Information Center -- rarediseases.info.nih.gov/diseases/7422/polycythemia-vera

## Outlook (Prognosis)

PV usually develops slowly. Most people do not have symptoms related to the
disease at the time of diagnosis. The condition is often diagnosed before
severe symptoms occur.

## Possible Complications

Complications of PVÂ may include:

    * Acute myelogenous leukemia (AML)
    * Bleeding from the stomach or other parts of the intestinal tract
    * GoutÂ (painful swelling of a joint)
    * Heart failure
    * MyelofibrosisÂ (disorder of the bone marrow in which the marrow is replaced by fibrous scar tissue)
    * Thrombosis (blood clotting, which can cause a stroke, heart attack, or other body damage)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if symptoms of PVÂ develop.

## Alternative Names

Primary polycythemia; Polycythemia rubra vera; Myeloproliferative disorder;
Erythremia; Splenomegalic polycythemia; Vaquez's disease; Osler's disease;
Polycythemia with chronic cyanosis; Erythrocytosis megalosplenica; Cryptogenic
polycythemia

## References

Kremyanskaya M, Najfeld V, Mascarenhas J, Hoffman R. The polycythemias. In:
Hoffman R, Benz EJ, Silberstein LE, et al, eds. _Hematology: Basic Principles
and Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 68.

National Cancer Institute website. Chronic myeloproliferative neoplasms
treatment (PDQ) -- health professional version.
www.cancer.gov/types/myeloproliferative/hp/chronic-treatment-pdq#link/_5.
Updated February 1, 2019. Accessed March 1, 2019.

Tefferi A. Polycythemia vera, essential thrombocythemia, and primary
myelofibrosis. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 166.

## Review Date 1/29/2019

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bone Marrow
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BoneMarrowDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bone
Marrow Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

