Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000220.htm    
                                Description: A bile duct stricture is an abnormal narrowing of the common bile duct. This is a tube that moves bile from the liver to the small intestine. Bile is a substance that helps with digestion.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bile duct stricture

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000220.htm

# Bile duct stricture

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A bile duct stricture is an abnormal narrowing of the common bile duct. This
is a tube that moves bile from the liver to the small intestine. Bile is a
substance that helps with digestion.

## Causes

A bile duct stricture is often caused by injury to the bile ducts during
surgery. For example, it may occur after surgery to remove the gallbladder.

Other causes of this condition include:

    * Cancer of the bile duct, liver or pancreas
    * Damage and scarring due to a gallstone in the bile duct
    * Damage or scarring after gallbladder removal 
    * Pancreatitis
    * Primary sclerosing cholangitis

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

    * Abdominal pain on the upper right side of belly
    * Chills
    * Fever
    * Itching
    * General feeling of discomfort
    * Loss of appetite
    * Jaundice
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Pale or clay-colored stools

## Exams and Tests

The following tests can help diagnose this condition:

    * Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP)
    * Percutaneous transhepatic cholangiogram (PTC)
    * Magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP)

The following blood tests can help reveal a problem with the biliary system.

    * Alkaline phosphatase (ALP) is higher than normal.
    * Bilirubin level is higher than normal.

This condition may also alter the results of the following tests:

    * Amylase level
    * Lipase level
    * Urine bilirubin
    * Prothrombin time (PT)

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to correct theÂ narrowing. This will allow bile to
flow from the liver into the intestine.

This may involve:

    * Surgery
    * Endoscopic or percutaneous dilationÂ or insertion of stents through the stricture

If surgery is done, the stricture is removed. The common bile duct will be
rejoined with the small intestine.

In some cases, a tiny metal or plastic mesh tube (stent) is placed across the
bile duct stricture to keep it open.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Treatment is successful most of the time. Long-term success depends on the
cause of the stricture.

## Possible Complications

Inflammation and narrowing of the biliary duct may return in some people.
There is a risk for infection above the narrowed area. Strictures that remain
for a long period can lead to liver damage (cirrhosis).

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if symptoms recur after pancreatitis,
cholecystectomy, or other biliary surgery.

## Alternative Names

Bile duct stricture; Biliary stricture

## Images

    * ![Bile pathway](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8794t.jpg)Bile pathway

## References

Anstee QM, Jones DEJ. Liver and biliary tract disease. In: Walker BR, Colledge
NR, Ralston SH, Penman ID, eds. _Davidson's Principles and Practice of
Medicine_. 22nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone;
2014:chap 23.

Ball CG, Lillemoe KD. The management of benign biliary strictures. In: Cameron
JL, Cameron AM, eds. _Current Surgical Therapy_. 12th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017: 445-451.

Fogel EL, Sherman S. Diseases of the gallbladder and bile ducts. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 155.

Jackson PG, Evans SRT. Biliary system. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers
BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2017:chap 54.

## Review Date 4/2/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bile
Duct](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BileDuctCancerandDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bile
Duct Cancer _Read more_

![Bile
Duct](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BileDuctCancerandDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bile
Duct Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

