Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007479.htm    
                                Description: ERCP is short for endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography. It is a procedure that looks at the bile ducts. It is done through an endoscope.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

ERCP

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007479.htm

# ERCP

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

ERCP is short for endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography. It is a
procedure that looks at the bile ducts. It is done through an endoscope.

    * Bile ducts are the tubes that carry bile from the liver to the gallbladder and small intestine.
    * ERCP is used to treat stones, tumors, or narrowed areas of the bile ducts.

## Description

An intravenous (IV) line is placed in your arm. You will lie on your stomach
or on your left side for the test.

    * Medicines to relax or sedate you will be given through the IV.
    * Sometimes, a spray to numb the throat is also used. A mouth guard will be placed in your mouth to protect your teeth. Dentures must be removed. 

After the sedative takes effect, the endoscope is inserted through the mouth.
It goes through the esophagus (food pipe) and stomach until it reaches the
duodenum (the part of the small intestine that is closest to the stomach).

    * You should not feel discomfort, and may have little memory of the test.
    * You may gag as the tube is passed down your esophagus. 
    * You may feel stretching of the ducts as the scope is put in place.

A thin tube (catheter) is passed through the endoscope and inserted into the
tubes (ducts) that lead to the pancreas and gallbladder. A special dye is
injected into these ducts, and x-rays are taken. This helps the doctor see
stones, tumors, and any areas that have become narrowed.

Special instruments can be placed through the endoscope and into the ducts.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

The procedure is used mostly to treat or diagnose problems of the pancreas or
bile ducts that can cause abdominal pain (most often in the right upper or
middle stomach area) and yellowing of the skin and eyes (jaundice).

ERCP may be used to:

    * Open the entry of the ducts into the bowel (sphincterotomy)
    * Stretch out narrow segments (bile duct strictures)
    * Remove or crush gallstones
    * Diagnose conditions such as biliary cirrhosis (cholangitis) or sclerosing cholangitis
    * Take tissue samples to diagnose a tumor of the pancreas, bile ducts, or gallbladder
    * Drain blocked areas 

Note: Imaging tests generally will be done to diagnose the cause of symptoms
before an ERCP is done. These include ultrasound tests, CT scan, or MRI scan.

## Risks

Risks from the procedure include:

    * Reaction to the anesthesia, dye, or drug used during the procedure
    * Bleeding 
    * Hole (perforation) of the bowel 
    * Inflammation of the pancreas (pancreatitis), which can be very serious 

## Before the Procedure

You will need to not eat or drink for at least 4 hours before the test. You
will sign a consent form.

Remove all jewelry so that it will not interfere with the x-ray.

Tell your health care provider if you have allergies to iodine or you have had
reactions to other dyes used to take x-rays.

You will need to arrange a ride home after the procedure.

## After the Procedure

Someone will need to drive you home from the hospital.

The air that is used to inflate the stomach and bowel during an ERCP can cause
some bloating or gas for about 24 hours. After the procedure, you may have a
sore throat for the first day. Soreness may last for up to 3 to 4 days.

Do only light activity on the first day after the procedure. Avoid heavy
lifting for the first 48 hours.

You can treat pain with acetaminophen (Tylenol). DO NOT take aspirin,
ibuprofen, or naproxen. Putting a heating pad on your belly may relieve pain
and bloating.

The provider will tell you what to eat. Most often, you will want to drink
fluids and eat only a light meal on the day after the procedure.

Call your provider if you have:

    * Abdominal pain or severe bloating
    * Bleeding from the rectum or black stools
    * Fever above 100Â°F (37.8Â°C)
    * Nausea or vomiting

## Alternative Names

Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography

## Images

    * ![ERCP](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19213t.jpg)ERCP
    * ![ERCP](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19564t.jpg)ERCP
    * ![Endoscopic retrograde cholangio pancreatography \(ERCP\) - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/15826t.jpg)Endoscopic retrograde cholangio pancreatography (ERCP) - series

## References

Lidofsky SD. Jaundice. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger
and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 21.

Pappas TN, Cox ML. The management of acute cholangitis. In: Cameron JL,
Cameron AM, eds. _Current Surgical Therapy_. 12th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:441-444.

Taylor AJ. Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography. In: Gore RM, Levine
MS, eds. _Textbook of Gastrointestinal Radiology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 74.

## Review Date 3/27/2019

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bile
Duct](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BileDuctCancerandDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bile
Duct Cancer _Read more_

![Bile
Duct](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BileDuctCancerandDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bile
Duct Diseases _Read more_

![Endoscopy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Endoscopy_thumb.jpg)Endoscopy
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

