Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000291.htm    
                                Description: Cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) is a rare cancerous (malignant) growth inÂ one of the ducts that carries bile from the liver to the small intestine.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cholangiocarcinoma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000291.htm

# Cholangiocarcinoma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) is a rare cancerous (malignant) growth inÂ one of the
ducts that carries bile from the liver to the small intestine.

## Causes

The exact cause of CCA isn't known. However, many of these tumors are already
quite advanced by the time they are found.

CCA may start anywhere along the bile ducts. These tumors block off the bile
ducts.

Both men and women are affected. Most people are older than 65.

People with the following health problems may have a higher chance of
developing CCA:

    * Bile duct (choledochal) cysts
    * Chronic biliary and liver inflammation
    * History of infection withÂ parasitic worms, liver flukes 
    * Primary sclerosing cholangitis
    * Ulcerative colitis

## Symptoms

Symptoms of CCA may include any of the following:

    * FeverÂ and chills
    * Clay-colored stools and dark urine
    * Itching
    * Loss of appetite
    * Pain in the upper right abdomen that may radiate to the back
    * Weight loss
    * Yellowing of the skin (jaundice) 

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will perform a physical exam. Tests will be done to
check for a tumor or blockage in the bile duct. These may include:

    * Abdominal CT scan
    * Abdominal ultrasound
    * X-ray of the bile ducts (PTCA)
    * Procedure that uses a viewing scope to look at the bile ducts (ERCP), during whichÂ tissue may be taken and looked at under a microscope

Blood tests that may be done include:

    * Liver function tests (especially alkaline phosphatase or bilirubin levels)
    * Complete blood count (CBC)

## Treatment

The goal is to treat the cancer and the blockage it causes. When possible,
surgery to remove the tumor is the treatment of choice and may result in a
cure. Often the cancer has already spread locally or to another area of the
body by the time it is diagnosed. As a result, surgery to cure the cancer is
not possible.

Chemotherapy or radiation may be given after surgery to decrease the risk of
the cancer returning. But the benefit of this treatment is not certain.

In select cases, a liver transplant can be tried.

Endoscopic therapy with stent placement can temporarily relieve blockages in
the biliary ducts. This may also relieve jaundice when the tumor cannot be
removed.

## Support Groups

You can ease the stress of illness by joining a support group with members who
share common experiences and problems.

Hospice is often a good resource for people with CCA that cannot be cured.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Completely removing the tumor allows some people to survive with the
possibility of complete cure.

If the tumor cannot be completely removed, a cure is generally not possible.
With treatment, about one half ofÂ affected people live a year, and about one
half live longer, but rarely beyond 5 years.

## Possible Complications

Complications of CCA include:

    * Infection
    * Liver failure
    * Spread (metastasis) of tumor to other organs

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have jaundice or other symptoms of
cholangiocarcinoma.

## Alternative Names

Bile duct cancer

## Images

    * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
    * ![Bile pathway](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8794t.jpg)Bile pathway

## References

Blechacz B, Gores GJ. Tumors of the bile ducts, gallbladder, and ampulla. In:
Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's
Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease: Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_.
10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 69.

National Cancer Institute website. Bile duct cancer (cholangiocarcinoma)
treatment (PDQ) â health professional version.
www.cancer.gov/types/liver/hp/bile-duct-treatment-pdq. Updated March 14, 2018.
Accessed June 11, 2018.

Rajkomar K, Koea JB. Intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma. In: Jarnagin WR, ed.
_Blumgart's Surgery of the Liver, Biliary Tract and Pancreas_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 50.

## Review Date 5/14/2018

Updated by: Preeti Sudheendra, MD, oncologist at the MD Anderson Cancer Center
at Cooper, Camden, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bile
Duct](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BileDuctCancerandDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bile
Duct Cancer _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

