Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/bilirubin-blood-test/    
                                Description: High bilirubin levels may be a sign of liver disease. Find out about a simple blood test that can check your levels.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Bilirubin Blood Test

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/bilirubin-blood-test/

# Bilirubin Blood Test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a bilirubin blood test?

A bilirubin blood test measures the levels of bilirubin in your blood.
Bilirubin is a yellowish substance made during the body's normal process of
breaking down red blood cells. Bilirubin is found in bile, a fluid in your
liver that helps you digest food. If your liver is healthy, it will remove
most of the bilirubin from your body. If your liver is damaged, bilirubin can
leak out of your liver and into your blood. When too much bilirubin gets into
the bloodstream, it can cause jaundice, a condition that causes your skin and
eyes to turn yellow. Signs of jaundice, along with a bilirubin blood test, can
help your health care provider find out if you have liver disease.

Other names: Total serum bilirubin, TSB

## What is it used for?

A bilirubin blood test is used to check the health of your liver. The test is
also commonly used to help diagnose newborn jaundice. Many healthy babies get
jaundice because their livers aren't mature enough to get rid of enough
bilirubin. Newborn jaundice is usually harmless and clears up within a few
weeks. But in some cases, high bilirubin levels can lead to brain damage, so
infants are often tested as a precaution.

## Why do I need a bilirubin blood test?

Your health care provider may order a bilirubin blood test:

    * If you have symptoms such as jaundice, dark urine, or stomach pain. These could indicate hepatitis, cirrhosis, or other liver diseases
    * To find out if there is a blockage in the structures that carry bile from your liver
    * To monitor an existing liver disease or disorder
    * To diagnose disorders related to problems with red blood cell production. High bilirubin levels in the bloodstream may be a sign of gallbladder disease and a condition called hemolytic anemia

## What happens during a bilirubin blood test?

A health care professional will take a blood sample from a vein in your arm,
using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a small amount of blood
will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel a little sting when
the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than five minutes.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You don't need any special preparations for a bilirubin blood test. If your
health care provider has also ordered other blood tests, you may need to fast
(not eat or drink) for several hours before the test. Your health care
provider will let you know if there are any special instructions to follow.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

## What do the results mean?

Normal results can vary, but high bilirubin levels can mean your liver isn't
working right. However, abnormal results don't always indicate a medical
condition needing treatment. Higher than normal bilirubin levels can also be
caused by medications, certain foods, or strenuous exercise. To learn what
your results mean, talk to your health care provider.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about a bilirubin blood test?

A bilirubin blood test is only one measure of your liver health. If your
health care provider thinks you might have a liver disease or a red blood cell
disorder, other tests may be recommended. These include liver function tests,
a group of tests that measure different substances in your blood, and tests
for certain proteins made in the liver. In addition, your health care provider
may recommend urine tests, an ultrasound, or a biopsy to get a sample of
tissue from your liver to examine

## References

    1. American Liver Foundation. [Internet]. New York: American Liver Foundation; c2017. Liver Function Tests; [updated 2016 Jan 25; cited 2017 Jan 31]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: http://www.liverfoundation.org/abouttheliver/info/liverfunctiontests/
    2. Healthy Children.org. [Internet]. Elk Grove Village (IL): American Academy of Pediatrics; c2017. Jaundice in Newborns Q&A; 2009 Jan 1 [cited 2017 Jan 31]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.healthychildren.org/English/ages-stages/baby/Pages/Jaundice.aspx
    3. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Bilirubin; [updated 2015 Dec 16; cited 2017 Jan 31]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/bilirubin/tab/test
    4. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998-2017. Bilirubin test: Definition; 2016 Jul 2 [cited 2017 Jan 31]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: http://www.mayoclinic.org/tests-procedures/bilirubin/basics/definition/prc-20019986
    5. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998-2017. Bilirubin test: Results; 2016 Jul 2 [cited 2017 Jan 31]; [about 6 screens]. Available from: http://www.mayoclinic.org/tests-procedures/bilirubin/basics/results/prc-20019986
    6. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998-2017. Bilirubin test: Why it's done; 2015 Oct 13 [cited 2017 Jan 31]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: http://www.mayoclinic.org/tests-procedures/bilirubin/basics/why-its-done/prc-20019986
    7. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; How Is Hemolytic Anemia Diagnosed? [updated 2014 Mar 21; cited 2017 Jan 31]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/hemolytic-anemia#Diagnosis
    8. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What Are the Risks of Blood Tests? [updated 2012 Jan 6; cited 2017 Jan 31]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests#Risk-Factors
    9. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What To Expect with Blood Tests; [updated 2012 Jan 6; cited 2017 Jan 31]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    10. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What Do Blood Tests Show? [updated 2012 Jan 6; cited 2017 Jan 31]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    11. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2017. Health Encyclopedia: Total Bilirubin (Blood); [cited 2017 Jan 31]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid;=total_bilirubin_blood

## Related Health Topics

    * Jaundice
    * Liver Diseases

## Related Lab Test Information

    * How to Understand Your Lab Results
    * Liver Function Tests

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 24 March 2020 Page last reviewed: 24 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

