Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003588.htm    
                                Description: The fecal fat test measures the amount of fat in the stool. This can help gauge the percentage of dietary fat that the body does not absorb.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Fecal fat

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003588.htm

# Fecal fat

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The fecal fat test measures the amount of fat in the stool. This can help
gauge the percentage of dietary fat that the body does not absorb.

## How the Test is Performed

There are many ways to collect the samples.

    * For adults and children, you can catch the stool on plastic wrap that is loosely placed over the toilet bowl and held in place by the toilet seat. Then put the sample in a clean container. One test kit supplies a special toilet tissue that you use to collect the sample, then put the sample in a clean container.
    * For infants and children wearing diapers, you can line the diaper with plastic wrap. If the plastic wrap is placed properly, you can prevent mixing of urine and stool. This will provide a better sample.

Collect all stool that is released over a 24-hour period (or sometimes 3 days)
in the containers provided. Label the containers with name, time, and date,
and send them to the lab.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Eat a normal diet containing about 100 grams (g) of fat per day for 3 days
before starting the test. The health care provider may ask you to stop using
drugs or food additives that could affect the test.

## How the Test will Feel

The test involves only normal bowel movements. There is no discomfort.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test evaluates fat absorption to tell how well the liver, gallbladder,
pancreas, and intestines are working.

Fat malabsorption can cause a change in your stools called steatorrhea. To
absorb fat normally, the body needs bile from the gallbladder (or liver if the
gallbladder has been removed), enzymes from the pancreas, and a normal small
intestine.

## Normal Results

Less than 7 g of fat per 24 hours.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Decreased fat absorption may be caused by:

    * Biliary tumor
    * Biliary stricture
    * Celiac disease
    * Chronic pancreatitis
    * Crohn disease
    * Cystic fibrosis
    * Gallstones (cholelithiasis)
    * Pancreatic cancer
    * Pancreatitis
    * Radiation enteritis
    * Short bowel syndrome (for example from surgery or an inherited problem)
    * Sprue
    * Whipple disease
    * Small bowel bacterial overgrowth 

## Risks

There are no risks.

## Considerations

Factors that interfere with the test are:

    * Enemas
    * Laxatives
    * Mineral oil
    * Inadequate fat in diet prior to and during the stool collection

## Alternative Names

Quantitative stool fat determination; Fat absorption

## Images

    * ![Digestive system organs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8710t.jpg)Digestive system organs

## References

Hogenauer C, Hammer HF. Maldigestion and malabsorption. In: Feldman M,
Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger & Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and
Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 104.

Reynolds JC, Ward PJ, Rose S, Solomon M. Small bowel. In: Reynolds JC, Ward
PJ, Rose S, Solomon M, eds. _Netter Collection of Medical Illustrations:
Digestive System: Part II - Lower Digestive Tract, The_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2017:pg 31-114.

Semrad CE. Approach to the patient with diarrhea and malabsorption. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 140.

Siddiqui UD, Hawes RH. Chronic pancreatitis. In: Chandrasekhara VD, Elmunzer
JB, Khashab MA, Muthusamy RV, eds. _Clinical Gastrointestinal Endoscopy_. 3rd
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 59.

## Review Date 6/21/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bile
Duct](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BileDuctCancerandDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bile
Duct Cancer _Read more_

![Bile
Duct](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BileDuctCancerandDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bile
Duct Diseases _Read more_

![Celiac
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CeliacDisease_thumb.jpg)Celiac Disease
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

