Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003894.htm    
                                Description: A biliary tract biopsy is the removal of small amounts of cells and fluids from the duodenum, bile ducts, pancreas, or pancreatic duct. The sample is examined under a microscope.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Biopsy - biliary tract

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003894.htm

# Biopsy - biliary tract

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A biliary tract biopsy is the removal of small amounts of cells and fluids
from the duodenum, bile ducts, pancreas, or pancreatic duct. The sample is
examined under a microscope.

## How the Test is Performed

A sample for a biliary tract biopsy can be obtained in different ways.

A needle biopsy can be done if you have a well-defined tumor.

    * The biopsy site is cleaned.
    * A thin needle is inserted into the area to be tested, and a sample of cells and fluid are removed.
    * The needle is then removed.
    * Pressure is put on the area to stop any bleeding. The site will be covered with a bandage. 

If you have a narrowing or blockage of the bile or pancreatic ducts, a sample
can be taken during procedures such as:

    * Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP)
    * Percutaneous transhepatic cholangiogram (PTCA)

## How to Prepare for the Test

You may not be able to eat or drink 8 to 12 hours or more before the test.
Your health care provider will tell you ahead of time what you need to do.

Make sure you have someone to drive you home.

## How the Test will Feel

How the test will feel depends on the type of procedure used to remove the
biopsy sample. With a needle biopsy, you may feel a sting as the needle is
inserted. Some people feel a cramping or pinching feeling during the
procedure.

Medicines that stop pain and help you relax are commonly used for other
biliary tract biopsy methods.

## Why the Test is Performed

A biliary tract biopsy can determine if a tumor started in the liver or spread
from another location. It also can determine if the tumor is cancerous.

This test may be done:

    * After a physical exam, x-ray, MRI, CT scan, or ultrasound shows abnormal growths in your biliary tract
    * To test for diseases or infection 

## Normal Results

A normal result means there are no signs of cancer, disease, or infection in
the biopsy sample.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be due to:

    * Cancer of the bile ducts (cholangiocarcinoma)
    * Cysts in the liver
    * Liver cancer
    * Pancreatic cancer
    * Swelling and scarring of the bile ducts (primary sclerosing cholangitis)

## Risks

Risks depend on how the biopsy sample was taken.

Risks may include:

    * Bleeding at the biopsy site
    * Infection

## Alternative Names

Cytology analysis - biliary tract; Biliary tract biopsy

## Images

    * ![Gallbladder endoscopy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8775t.jpg)Gallbladder endoscopy
    * ![Bile culture](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9105t.jpg)Bile culture

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Biopsy, site-specificâspecimen. In: Chernecky CC,
Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:199-201.

Stockland AH, Baron TH. Endoscopic and radiologic treatment of biliary
disease. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and
Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 70.

## Review Date 1/1/2019

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bile
Duct](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BileDuctCancerandDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bile
Duct Cancer _Read more_

![Bile
Duct](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BileDuctCancerandDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bile
Duct Diseases _Read more_

![Biopsy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Biopsy_thumb.jpg)Biopsy _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

