Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001207.htm    
                                Description: Niemann-Pick disease (NPD) is a group of diseases passed down through families (inherited) in which fatty substances called lipids collect in the cells of the spleen, liver, and brain.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Niemann-Pick disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001207.htm

# Niemann-Pick disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Niemann-Pick disease (NPD) is a group of diseases passed down through families
(inherited) in which fatty substances called lipids collect in the cells of
the spleen, liver, and brain.

There are three common forms of the disease:

    * Type A
    * Type B
    * Type C 

Each type involves different organs. It may or may not involve the nervous
system and breathing. Each one can cause different symptoms and may occur at
different times throughout life.

## Causes

NPD types A and B occur when cells in the body do not have an enzyme called
acid sphingomyelinase (ASM). This substance helps break down (metabolize) a
fatty substance called sphingomyelin, which is found in every cell in the
body.

If ASM is missing or does not work properly, sphingomyelin builds up inside
cells. This kills your cells and makes it hard for organs to work properly.

Type A occurs in all races and ethnicities. It is more common in the Ashkenazi
(Eastern European) Jewish population.

Type C occurs when the body cannot properly break down cholesterol and other
fats (lipids). This leads to too much cholesterol in the liver and spleen and
too much of other lipids in the brain. Type C is most common among Puerto
Ricans of Spanish descent.

Type C1 is a variant of type C. It involves a defect that interferes with how
cholesterol moves between brain cells. This type has only been seen in French
Canadian people in Yarmouth County, Nova Scotia.

## Symptoms

Symptoms vary. Other health conditions may cause similar symptoms. The early
stages of the disease may only cause a few symptoms.Â A personÂ may never have
all symptoms.

Type A usually begins in the first few months of life. Symptoms may include:

    * Abdominal (belly area) swelling within 3 to 6 months
    * Cherry red spot at the back of the eye (on the retina)
    * Feeding difficulties
    * Loss of early motor skills (gets worse over time)

Type B symptoms are usually milder. They occur in late childhood or the
teenage years. Abdominal swelling may occur in young children. There is almost
no brain and nervous system involvement, such as loss of motor skills. Some
children may have repeated respiratory infections.

Types C and C1 usually affects school-age children. However, it may occur any
time between early infancy to adulthood. Symptoms may include:

    * Difficulty moving limbs that may lead to unsteady gait, clumsiness, walking problems
    * Enlarged spleen
    * Enlarged liver
    * Jaundice at (or shortly after) birth
    * Learning difficulties and intellectual decline
    * Seizures
    * Slurred, irregular speech
    * Sudden loss of muscle tone that may lead to falls
    * Tremors
    * Trouble moving the eyes up and down

## Exams and Tests

A blood or bone marrow test can be done to diagnose types A and B. The test
can tell who has the disease, but does not show if you are a carrier. DNA
tests can be done to diagnose carriers of types A and B.

A skin biopsy is usually done to diagnose types C and D. The health care
provider watches how the skin cells grow, move, and store cholesterol. DNA
tests may also be done to look for the 2 genes that cause this type of the
disease.

Other tests might include:

    * Bone marrow aspiration
    * Liver biopsy (usually not needed)
    * Slit-lamp eye exam
    * Tests to check level of ASM  

## Treatment

At this time, there is no effective treatment for type A.

Bone marrow transplants may be tried for typeÂ B. Researchers continue to
study possible treatments, including enzyme replacement and gene therapy.

A new medicine called miglustat is available for the nervous system symptoms
of type C.

High cholesterol may be managed with a healthy, low-cholesterol diet or
medicines. However, research does not show that these methods stop the disease
from getting worse or change how cells break down cholesterol. Medicines are
available to control or relieve many symptoms, such as sudden loss of muscle
tone and seizures.

## Support Groups

These organizations can provide support and more information on Niemann-Pick
disease:

    * National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke -- www.ninds.nih.gov/Disorders/All-Disorders/Niemann-Pick-Disease-Information-Page
    * National Niemann-Pick Disease Foundation -- nnpdf.org
    * National Organization for Rare Disorders -- rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/niemann-pick-disease-type-c

## Outlook (Prognosis)

NPD type A is a severe disease. It usually leads to death by age 2 or 3.

Those with type B may live into late childhood or adulthood.

A child who shows signs of type C before age 1 may not live to school age.
Those who show symptoms after entering school may live into their mid-to-late
teens. Some may live into their 20s.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Make an appointment with your provider if you have a family history of
Niemann-Pick disease and you plan to have children. Genetic counseling and
screening is recommended.

Call your provider if your child has symptoms of this disease, including:

    * Developmental problems
    * Feeding problems
    * Poor weight gain

## Prevention

All types of Niemann-Pick are autosomal recessive. This means that both
parents are carriers. Each parent has 1 copy of the abnormal gene without
having any signs of the disease themselves.

When both parents are carriers, there is a 25% chance that their child will
have the disease and a 50% chance that their child will be a carrier.

Carrier detection testing is only possible if the genetic defect is
identified. The defects involved in types A and B have been well-studied. DNA
tests for these forms of Niemann-Pick are available.

Genetic defects have been identified in the DNA of many people with type C. It
may be possible to diagnose people who carry the abnormal gene.

A few centers offer tests to diagnose a baby still in the womb.

## Alternative Names

NPD; Sphingomyelinase deficiency; Lipid storage disorder - Niemann-Pick
disease; Lysosomal storage disease - Niemann-Pick

## Images

    * ![Niemann-Pick foamy cells](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1224t.jpg)Niemann-Pick foamy cells

## References

Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF. Defects in metabolism of
lipids. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson
Textbook of Pediatrics._ 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 86.

Patterson MC, Hendriksz CJ; NP-C Guidelines Working Group, et al.
Recommendations for the diagnosis and management of Niemann-Pick disease type
C: an update. _Mol Genet Metab_. 2012;106(3):330-344. PMID: 22572546
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22572546.

Turnpenny PD, Ellard S. Inborn errors of metabolism. In: Turnpenny PD, Ellard
S, eds. _Emery's Elements of Medical Genetics_. 15th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 18.

## Review Date 10/15/2018

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Genetic Brain
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GeneticBrainDisorders_thumb.jpg)Genetic
Brain Disorders _Read more_

![Photograph of a doctor talking to a
patient](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Doctor_talking_to_patient_thumb.jpg)Lipid
Metabolism Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

