Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001655.htm    
                                Description: Lesch-Nyhan syndrome is a disorder that is passed down through families (inherited). It affects how the body builds and breaks down purines. Purines are a normal part of human tissue that help make up    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Lesch-Nyhan syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001655.htm

# Lesch-Nyhan syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Lesch-Nyhan syndrome is a disorder that is passed down through families
(inherited). It affects how the body builds and breaks down purines. Purines
are a normal part of human tissue that help make up the body's genetic
blueprint. They are also found in many different foods.

## Causes

Lesch-Nyhan syndrome is passed down as an X-linked, or sex-linked trait. It
occurs mostly in boys. People with this syndrome are missing or severely
lacking an enzyme called hypoxanthine guanine phosphoribosyltransferase
(HPRT). The body needs this substance to recycle purines. Without it,
abnormally high levels of uric acid build up in the body.

## Symptoms

Too much uric acid can cause gout-like swelling in some of the joints. In some
cases, kidney and bladder stones develop.

People with Lesch-Nyhan have delayed motor development followed by abnormal
movements and increased reflexes. A striking feature of Lesch-Nyhan syndrome
is self-destructive behavior, including chewing off fingertips and lips. It is
unknown how the disease causes these problems.

## Exams and Tests

There may be a family history of this condition.

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. The exam may show:

    * Increased reflexes
    * Spasticity (having spasms)

Blood and urine tests may show high uric acid levels. A skin biopsy may show
decreased levels of the HPRT1 enzyme.

## Treatment

No specific treatment exists for Lesch-Nyhan syndrome. Medicine for treating
gout can lower uric acid levels. However, treatment does not improve the
nervous system outcome (for example, having increased reflexes and spasms).

Some symptoms may be relieved with these medicines:

    * Carbidopa/levodopa
    * Diazepam
    * Phenobarbital
    * Haloperidol

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome is likely to be poor. People with this syndrome usually need help
walking and sitting. Most need a wheelchair.

## Possible Complications

Severe, progressive disability is likely.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if signs of this illness appear in your child or if there
is a history of Lesch-Nyhan syndrome in your family.

## Prevention

Genetic counseling for prospective parents with a family history of Lesch-
Nyhan syndrome is recommended. Testing can be done to see if a woman is a
carrier of this syndrome.

## References

Harris JC. Disorders of purine and pyrimidine metabolism. In: Kliegman RM,
Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 89.

Katz TC, Finn CT, Stoler JM. Patients with genetic syndromes. In: Stern TA,
Freudenreich O, Smith FA, Fricchione GL, Rosenbaum JF, eds. _Massachusetts
General Hospital Handbook of General Hospital Psychiatry_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 35.

Petty RE, Lindsley CB. Musculoskeletal manifestations of systemic disease. In:
Petty RE, Laxer RM, Lindsley CB, Wedderburn LR, eds. _Textbook of Pediatric
Rheumatology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 45.

## Review Date 2/19/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Genetic Brain
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GeneticBrainDisorders_thumb.jpg)Genetic
Brain Disorders _Read more_

![Metabolic
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MetabolicDisorders_thumb.jpg)Metabolic
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

