Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001613.htm    
                                Description: Neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses (NCL) refers to a group of rare disorders of the nerve cells. NCL is passed down through families (inherited).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses (NCL)

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001613.htm

# Neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses (NCL)

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses (NCL) refers to a group of rare disorders of
the nerve cells. NCL is passed down through families (inherited).

These are the three main types of NCL:

    * Adult (Kufs or Parry disease)
    * Juvenile (Batten disease)
    * Late infantile (Jansky-Bielschowsky disease)

## Causes

NCL involves the buildup of an abnormal material called lipofuscin in the
brain. NCL is thought to be caused by problems with the brain's ability to
remove and recycle proteins.

Lipofuscinoses are inherited as autosomal recessive traits. This means each
parent passes on a nonworking copy of the gene for the child to develop the
condition.

Only one adult subtype of NCL is inherited as autosomal dominant trait.Â

## Symptoms

Symptoms of NCL include:

    * Abnormally increased muscle tone or spasm
    * Blindness or vision problems
    * Dementia
    * Lack of muscle coordination
    * Intellectual disability
    * Movement disorder
    * Loss of speech  

    * Seizures
    * Unsteady walk

## Exams and Tests

The disorder may be seen at birth, but it is usually diagnosed much later in
childhood.

Tests include:

    * Autofluorescence (a light technique)
    * EEG (measures electrical activity in the brain)
    * Electron microscopy of a skin biopsy
    * Electroretinogram (an eye test)
    * Genetic testing
    * MRI or CT scans of the brain
    * Tissue biopsy 

## Treatment

There is no cure for NCL disorders. Treatment depends on the type of NCL and
extent of symptoms. Your health care provider may prescribe muscle relaxants
to control irritability and sleep disturbances. Medicines may also be
prescribed to control seizures and anxiety. A person with NCL may need
lifelong assistance and care.

## Support Groups

The following resources can provide more information on NCL:

    * Genetic and Rare Diseases Information Center -- rarediseases.info.nih.gov/diseases/10973/adult-neuronal-ceroid-lipofuscinosis
    * Batten Disease Support and Research Association -- bdsra.org

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The younger the person is when the disease appears, the greater the risk for
disability and early death. Those who develop the disease early can have
vision problems that progress to blindness and problems with mental function
that get worse. If the disease starts in the first year of life, death by age
10 is likely.

If the disease occurs in adulthood, symptoms will be milder, with no vision
loss and a normal life expectancy.

## Possible Complications

These complications can occur:

    * Vision impairment or blindness (with the early-onset forms of the disease)
    * Mental impairment, ranging from severe developmental delays at birth to dementia later in life
    * Rigid muscles (due to severe problems with the nerves that control muscle tone) 

The person may become totally dependent on others for help with daily
activities.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if your child shows symptoms of blindness or intellectual
disability.

## Prevention

Genetic counseling is recommended if your family has a known history of NCL.
Prenatal tests, or a test called preimplantation genetic diagnosis (PGD), may
be available, depending on the specific type of disease. In PGD, an embryo is
tested for abnormalities before it is implanted in the woman's womb.

## Alternative Names

Lipofuscinoses; Batten disease; Jansky-Bielschowsky; Kufs disease; Spielmeyer-
Vogt; Haltia-Santavuori disease; Hagberg-Santavuori disease

## References

Elitt CM, Volpe JJ. Degenerative disorders of the newborn. In: Volpe JJ, Inder
TE, Darras BT, et al, eds. _Volpe's Neurology of the Newborn_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 29.

Glykys J, Sims KB. The neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis disorders. In: Swaiman
KF, Ashwal S, Ferriero DM, et al, eds. _Swaiman's Pediatric Neurology:
Principles and Practice_. 6th ed. Elsevier; 2017:chap 48.

Grabowski GA, Burrow AT, Leslie ND, Prada CE. Lysosomal storage diseases. In:
Orkin SH, Fisher DE, Ginsburg D, Look AT, Lux SE, Nathan DG, eds. _Nathan and
Oski's Hematology and Oncology of Infancy and Childhood_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 25.

Kwon JM. Neurodegenerative disorders of childhood: neuronal ceroid
lipofuscinoses. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds.
_Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 599.

## Review Date 10/26/2017

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Degenerative Nerve
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DegenerativeNerveDiseases_thumb.jpg)Degenerative
Nerve Diseases _Read more_

![Genetic Brain
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GeneticBrainDisorders_thumb.jpg)Genetic
Brain Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

