Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001160.htm    
                                Description: Menkes disease is an inherited disorder in which the body has a problem absorbing copper. The disease affects development, both mental and physical.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Menkes disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001160.htm

# Menkes disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Menkes disease is an inherited disorder in which the body has a problem
absorbing copper. The disease affects development, both mental and physical.

## Causes

Menkes disease is caused by a defect in the _ATP7A_ gene. The defect makes it
hard for the body to properly distribute (transport) copper throughout the
body. As a result, the brain and other parts of the body do not get enough
copper, while it builds up in the small intestine and kidneys. A low copper
level can affect the structure of bone, skin, hair, and blood vessels, and
interfere with nerve function.

Menkes syndrome is usually inherited, which means it runs in families. The
gene is on the X-chromosome, so if a mother carries the defective gene, each
of her sons has a 50% (1 in 2) chance of developing the disease, and 50% of
her daughters will be a carrier of the disease. This kind of gene inheritance
is called X-linked recessive.

In some people, the disease is not inherited. Instead, the gene defect is
present at the time the baby is conceived.

## Symptoms

Common symptoms of Menkes disease in infants are:

    * Brittle, kinky, steely, sparse, or tangled hair
    * Pudgy, rosy cheeks, sagging facial skin
    * Feeding difficulties
    * Irritability
    * Lack of muscle tone, floppiness
    * Low body temperature
    * Intellectual disability and developmental delay
    * Seizures
    * Skeletal changes

## Exams and Tests

Once Menkes disease is suspected, tests that may be done include:

    * Ceruloplasmin blood test (substance that transports copper in the blood)
    * Copper blood test
    * Skin cell culture
    * X-ray of the skeleton or x-ray of the skull
    * Gene testing to check for defect of the _ATP7A_ gene 

## Treatment

Treatment usually only helps when started very early in the course of the
disease. Injections of copper into a vein or under the skin have been used
with mixed results and depends on whether the _ATP7A_ gene still has some
activity.

## Support Groups

These resources can provide more information on Menkes syndrome:

    * National Organization for Rare Disorders -- rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/menkes-disease
    * NIH/NLM Genetics Home Reference -- ghr.nlm.nih.gov/condition/menkes-syndrome

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most children with this disease die within the first few years of life.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Talk to your health care provider if you have a family history of Menkes
syndrome and you plan to have children. A baby with this condition will often
show symptoms early in infancy.

## Prevention

See a genetic counselor if you want to have children and you have a family
history of Menkes syndrome. Maternal relatives (relatives on the mother's side
of the family) of a boy with this syndrome should be seen by a geneticist to
find out if they are carriers.

## Alternative Names

Steely hair disease; Menkes kinky hair syndrome; Kinky hair disease; Copper
transport disease; Trichopoliodystrophy; X-linked copper deficiency

## Images

    * ![Hypotonia](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17229t.jpg)Hypotonia

## References

Kwon JM. Neurodegenerative disorders of childhood. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme
JW, Blum NJ, Shah, SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics._ 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 617.

Turnpenny PD, Ellard S. Inborn errors of metabolism. In: Turnpenny PD, Ellard
S, eds. _Emery's Elements of Medical Genetics._ 15th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 18.

## Review Date 4/24/2019

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, FACMG, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Genetic Brain
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GeneticBrainDisorders_thumb.jpg)Genetic
Brain Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

