Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003889.htm    
                                Description: Enteroscopy is a procedure used to examine the small intestine (small bowel).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Enteroscopy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003889.htm

# Enteroscopy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Enteroscopy is a procedure used to examine the small intestine (small bowel).

## How the Test is Performed

A thin, flexible tube (endoscope) is inserted through the mouth and into the
upper gastrointestinal tract. During a double-balloon enteroscopy, balloons
attached to the endoscope can be inflated to allow the doctor to view a
section of the small intestine.

In a colonoscopy, a flexible tube is inserted through your rectum and colon.
The tube can most often reach into the end part of the small intestine
(ileum). Capsule endoscopy is done with a disposable capsule that you swallow.

Tissue samples removed during enteroscopy are sent to the lab for examination.
(Biopsies cannot be taken with a capsule endoscopy.)

## How to Prepare for the Test

Do not take products containing aspirin for 1 week before the procedure. Tell
your health care provider if you take blood thinners such as warfarin
(Coumadin) or clopidogrel (Plavix), because these may interfere with the test.
Do NOT stop taking any medicine unless told to do so by your provider.

Do not eat any solid foods or milk products after midnight the day of your
procedure. You may have clear liquids until 4 hours before your exam.

You must sign a consent form.

## How the Test will Feel

You will be given calming medicine for the procedure and will not feel any
discomfort. You may have some bloating or cramping when you wake up. This is
from air that is pumped into the abdomen to expand the area during the
procedure.

A capsule endoscopy causes no discomfort.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is most often performed to help diagnose diseases of the small
intestines. It may be done if you have:

    * Abnormal x-ray results
    * Tumors in the small intestines
    * Unexplained diarrhea
    * Unexplained gastrointestinal bleeding

## Normal Results

In a normal test result, the provider will not find sources of bleeding in the
small bowel, and will not find any tumors or other abnormal tissue.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Signs may include:

    * Abnormalities of the tissue lining the small intestine (mucosa) or the tiny, finger-like projections on the surface of the small intestine (villi)
    * Abnormal lengthening of blood vessels (angiectasis) in the intestinal lining
    * Immune cells called PAS-positive macrophages
    * Polyps or cancer
    * Radiation enteritis
    * Swollen or enlarged lymph nodes or lymphatic vessels
    * Ulcers

Changes found on enteroscopy may be signs of disorders and conditions,
including:

    * Amyloidosis
    * Celiac sprue
    * Crohn disease
    * Folate or vitamin B12 deficiency
    * Giardiasis
    * Infectious gastroenteritis
    * Lymphangiectasia
    * Lymphoma
    * Small intestinal angiectasia
    * Small intestinal cancer  

    * Tropical sprue
    * Whipple disease

## Risks

Complications are rare but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding from the biopsy site
    * Hole in the bowel (bowel perforation)
    * Infection of the biopsy site leading to bacteremia
    * Vomiting, followed by aspiration into the lungs
    * The capsule endoscope can cause a blockage in a narrowed intestine with symptoms of abdominal pain and bloating  
  

## Considerations

Factors that prohibit use of this test may include:

    * Uncooperative or confused person 
    * Untreated blood clotting (coagulation) disorders 
    * Use of aspirin or other medicines that prevent the blood from clotting normally (anticoagulants) 

The greatest risk is bleeding. Signs include:

    * Abdominal pain
    * Blood in the stools
    * Vomiting blood

## Alternative Names

Small bowel biopsy; Push enteroscopy; Double-balloon enteroscopy; Capsule
enteroscopy

## Images

    * ![Small intestine biopsy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8927t.jpg)Small intestine biopsy

## References

Barth B, Troendle D. Capsule endoscopy and small bowel enteroscopy. In: Wyllie
R, Hyams JS, Kay M, eds. _Pediatric Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 5th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 63.

Kovacs TO, Jensen DM. Gastrointestinal hemorrhage. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI,
eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 135.

Vargo JJ. Preparation for and complications of GI endoscopy. In: Feldman M,
Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and
Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 41.

## Review Date 10/26/2017

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Diarrhea](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Diarrhea_thumb.jpg)Diarrhea _Read
more_

![Gastrointestinal
Bleeding](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GastrointestinalBleeding_thumb.jpg)Gastrointestinal
Bleeding _Read more_

![Digestive
System](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DigestiveDiseasesandIntestinalCancer_thumb.jpg)Intestinal
Cancer _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

