Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000235.htm    
                                Description: Perforation is a hole that develops through the wall of a body organ. This problem may occur in the esophagus, stomach, small intestine, large intestine, rectum, or gallbladder.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Gastrointestinal perforation

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000235.htm

# Gastrointestinal perforation

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Perforation is a hole that develops through the wall of a body organ. This
problem may occur in the esophagus, stomach, small intestine, large intestine,
rectum, or gallbladder.

## Causes

Perforation of an organ can be caused by a variety of factors. These include:

    * Appendicitis
    * Cancer (all types)
    * Crohn disease
    * Diverticulitis
    * Gallbladder disease
    * Peptic ulcer disease
    * Ulcerative colitis
    * Bowel blockage
    * Chemotherapy agents
    * Increased pressure in the esophagus caused by forceful vomiting 

It may also be caused by surgery in the abdomen or procedures such as
colonoscopy or upper endoscopy.

## Symptoms

Perforation of the intestine or other organs causes the contents to leak into
the abdomen. This causes a severe infection called peritonitis.

Symptoms may include:

    * Severe abdominal pain
    * Chills
    * Fever
    * Nausea
    * Vomiting
    * Shock

## Exams and Tests

X-rays of the chest or abdomen may show air in the abdominal cavity. This is
called free air. It is a sign of a tear. If the esophagus is perforated free
air can be seen in the mediastinum (around the heart) and in the chest.

A CT scan of the abdomen often shows where the hole is located. The white
blood cell count is often higher than normal.

## Treatment

Treatment most often involves emergency surgery to repair the hole.

    * Sometimes, a small part of the intestine must be removed. One end of the intestine may be brought out through an opening (stoma) made in the abdominal wall. This is called a colostomy or ileostomy.
    * A drain from the abdomen or other organ may also be needed.

In rare cases, people can be treated with antibiotics alone if the perforation
has closed. This can be confirmed by a physical exam, blood tests, CT scan,
and x-rays.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Surgery is successful most of the time. However, the outcome will depend on
how severe the perforation is, and for how long it was present before
treatment. The presence of other illnesses can also affect how well a person
will do after treatment.

## Possible Complications

Even with surgery, infection is the most common complication of the condition.
Infections can be either inside the abdomen (abdominal abscess or
peritonitis), or throughout the whole body. Body-wide infection is called
sepsis.Â Sepsis can be very serious and can lead to death.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call yourÂ health care providerÂ if you have:

    * Blood in your stool
    * Changes in bowel habits
    * Fever
    * Nausea
    * Severe abdominal pain
    * Vomiting

## Prevention

People will often have a few days of pain before the intestinal perforation
occurs. If you have pain in the abdomen, see your provider right away.
Treatment is much simpler and safer when it is started before the perforation
occurs.

## Alternative Names

Intestinal perforation; Perforation of the intestines; Gastric perforation;
Esophageal perforation

## Images

    * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
    * ![Digestive system organs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8710t.jpg)Digestive system organs

## References

Squires R, Carter SN, Postier RG. Acute abdomen. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp
RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2017:chap 45.

Wagner JP, Chen DC, Barie PS, Hiatt JR. Peritonitis and intraabdominal
infection. In: Vincent J-L, Abraham E, Moore FA, Kochanek PM, Fink MP, eds.
_Textbook of Critical Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 99.

Wyers SG, Matthews JB. Surgical peritonitis and other diseases of the
peritoneum, mesentery, omentum, and diaphragm. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS,
Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver
Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 38.

## Review Date 4/3/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Digestive
System](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DigestiveDiseasesandIntestinalCancer_thumb.jpg)Digestive
Diseases _Read more_

![Gastrointestinal
Bleeding](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GastrointestinalBleeding_thumb.jpg)Gastrointestinal
Bleeding _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

