Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003819.htm    
                                Description: Mesenteric angiography is a test used took look at the blood vessels that supply the small and large intestines.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Mesenteric angiography

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003819.htm

# Mesenteric angiography

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Mesenteric angiography is a test used took look at the blood vessels that
supply the small and large intestines.

Angiography is an imaging test that uses x-rays and a special dye to see
inside the arteries. Arteries are blood vessels that carry blood away from the
heart.

## How the Test is Performed

This test is done in a hospital. You will lie on an x-ray table. You may ask
for medicine to help you relax (sedative) if you need it.

    * During the test, your blood pressure, heart rate, and breathing will be checked.
    * The health care provider will shave and clean the groin. A numbing medicine (anesthetic) is injected into the skin over an artery. A needle is inserted into an artery.
    * A thin flexible tube called a catheter is passed through the needle. It is moved into the artery, and up through the main vessels of the belly area until it is properly placed into a mesenteric artery. The doctor uses x-rays as a guide. The doctor can see live images of the area on a TV-like monitor.
    * Contrast dye is injected through this tube to see if there are any problems with the blood vessels. X-ray images are taken of the artery.

Certain treatments can be done during this procedure. These items are passed
through the catheter to the area in the artery that needs treatment. These
include:

    * Dissolving a blood clot with medicine
    * Opening a partially blocked artery with a balloon
    * Placing a small tube called a stent into an artery to help hold it open

After the x-rays or treatments are finished, the catheter is removed. Pressure
is applied to the puncture site for 20 to 45 minutes to stop the bleeding.
After that time the area is checked and a tight bandage is applied. The leg is
most often kept straight for another 6 hours after the procedure.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You should not eat or drink anything for 6 to 8 hours before the test.

You will be asked to wear a hospital gown and sign a consent form for the
procedure. Remove jewelry from the area being imaged.

Tell your provider:

    * If you are pregnant
    * If you have ever had any allergic reactions to x-ray contrast material, shellfish, or iodine substances
    * If you are allergic to any medicines
    * Which medicines you are taking (including any herbal preparations)
    * If you have ever had any bleeding problems 

## How the Test will Feel

You may feel a brief sting when the numbing medicine is given. You will feel a
brief sharp pain and some pressure as the catheter is placed and moved into
the artery. In most cases, you will feel only a sensation of pressure in the
groin area.

As the dye is injected, you will feel a warm, flushing sensation. You may have
tenderness and bruising at the site of the catheter insertion after the test.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is done:

    * When there are symptoms of a narrowed or blocked blood vessel in the intestines
    * To find the source of bleeding in the gastrointestinal tract
    * To find the cause of ongoing abdominal pain and weight loss when no cause can be identified
    * When other studies do not provide enough information about abnormal growths along the intestinal tract
    * To look at blood vessel damage after an abdominal injury 

A mesenteric angiogram may be performed after more sensitive nuclear medicine
scans have identified active bleeding. The radiologist can then pinpoint and
treat the source.

## Normal Results

Results are normal if the examined arteries are normal in appearance.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A common abnormal finding is narrowing and hardening of the arteries that
supply the large and small intestine. This is called mesenteric ischemia. The
problem occurs when fatty material (plaque) builds up on the walls of your
arteries.

Abnormal results may also be due to bleeding in the small and large intestine.
This may be caused by:

    * Angiodysplasia of the colon
    * Blood vessel rupture from injury 

Other abnormal results may be due to:

    * Blood clots
    * Cirrhosis
    * Tumors

## Risks

There is some risk of the catheter damaging the artery or knocking loose a
piece of the artery wall. This can reduce or block blood flow and lead to
tissue death. This is a rare complication.

Other risks include:

    * Allergic reaction to the contrast dye
    * Damage to the blood vessel where the needle and catheter are inserted
    * Excessive bleeding or a blood clot where the catheter is inserted, which can reduce blood flow to the leg
    * Heart attack or stroke
    * Hematoma, a collection of blood at the site of the needle puncture
    * Infection
    * Injury to the nerves at the needle puncture site
    * Kidney damage from the dye
    * Damage to the intestine if the blood supply is reduced 

## Alternative Names

Abdominal arteriogram; Arteriogram - abdomen; Mesenteric angiogram

## Images

    * ![Mesenteric arteriography](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9623t.jpg)Mesenteric arteriography

## References

Desai SS, Hodgson KJ. Endovascular diagnostic technique. In: Sidawy AN, Perler
BA, eds. _Rutherford's Vascular Surgery and Endovascular Therapy_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 60.

Lo RC, Schermerhorn ML. Mesenteric arterial disease: epidemiology,
pathophysiology, and clinical evaluation. In: Sidawy AN, Perler BA, eds.
_Rutherford's Vascular Surgery and Endovascular Therapy_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 131.

vd Bosch H, Westenberg JJM, d Roos A. Cardiovascular magnetic resonance
angiography: carotids, aorta, and peripheral vessels. In: Manning WJ, Pennell
DJ, eds. _Cardiovascular Magnetic Resonance_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2019:chap 44.

## Review Date 10/23/2018

Updated by: Mary C. Mancini, MD, PhD, Director, Cardiothoracic Surgery,
Christus Highland Medical Center, Shreveport, LA. Review provided by VeriMed
Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cirrhosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cirrhosis2_thumb.jpg)Cirrhosis
_Read more_

![Colonic
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ColonicDiseases_thumb.jpg)Colonic
Diseases _Read more_

![Digestive
System](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DigestiveDiseasesandIntestinalCancer_thumb.jpg)Digestive
Diseases _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

