Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003130.htm    
                                Description: Black or tarry stools with a foul smell are a sign of a problem in the upper digestive tract.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Black or tarry stools

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003130.htm

# Black or tarry stools

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Black or tarry stools with a foul smell are a sign of a problem in the upper
digestive tract.

The term melena is used to describe this finding.

## Considerations

Eating black licorice, blueberries, blood sausage,Â or taking iron pills,
activated charcoal, or bismuth medicines like Pepto-Bismol, can also cause
black stools. Beets and foods with red coloring can sometimes make stools
appear reddish. In all these cases, your doctor can test the stool with a
chemical to rule out the presence of blood.

Bleeding in the esophagus or stomach (such as with peptic ulcer disease) can
also cause you to vomit blood.

## Causes

The color of the blood in the stools can indicate the source of bleeding.

    * Black or tarry stools may be due to bleeding in the upper part of the GI (gastrointestinal) tract, such as the esophagus, stomach, or the first part of the small intestine. In this case, blood is darker because it gets digested on its way through the GI tract.
    * Red or fresh blood in the stools (rectal bleeding), is a sign of bleeding from the lower GI tract (rectum and anus).

Peptic ulcers are the most common cause of acute upper GI bleeding. Black and
tarry stools may also occur due to:

    * Abnormal blood vessels
    * A tear in the esophagus from violent vomiting (Mallory-Weiss tear)
    * Blood supply being cut off to part of the intestines
    * Inflammation of the stomach lining (gastritis)
    * Trauma or foreign body
    * Widened, overgrown veins (called varices) in the esophagus and stomach, commonly caused by liver cirrhosis
    * Cancer of the esophagus, stomach, or duodenum or ampulla

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider right away if:

    * You notice blood or changes in the color of your stool
    * You vomit blood
    * You feel dizziness or lightheadednessÂ 

In children, a small amount of blood in the stool is most often not serious.
The most common cause is constipation. You should still tell your child's
provider if you notice this problem.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will take a medical history and perform a physical exam. The
exam will focus on your abdomen.

You may be asked the following questions:

    * Are you taking blood thinners, such as aspirin, warfarin or clopidogrel, or similar medicines? Are you taking an NSAID, such as ibuprofen or naproxen?
    * Have you had any trauma or swallowed a foreign object accidentally?
    * Have you eaten black licorice, lead, Pepto-Bismol, or blueberries?
    * Have you had more than one episode of blood in your stool? Is every stool this way?
    * Have you lost any weight recently?
    * Is there blood on the toilet paper only?
    * What color is the stool?
    * When did the problem develop?
    * What other symptoms are present (abdominal pain, vomiting blood, bloating, excessive gas, diarrhea, or fever)?Â 

You may need to have one or more tests to look for the cause:

    * Angiography
    * Bleeding scan (nuclear medicine)
    * Blood studies, including a complete blood count (CBC) and differential, serum chemistries, clotting studies
    * Colonoscopy
    * Esophagogastroduodenoscopy or EGD
    * Stool culture
    * Tests for the presence of _Helicobacter pylori_ infection
    * Capsule endoscopy (a pill with a built in camera that takes a video of the small intestine)
    * Double balloon enteroscopy (a scope that can reach the parts of the small intestine that are not able to be reached with EGD or colonoscopy)

Severe cases of bleeding that cause excessive blood loss and a drop in blood
pressure may require surgery or hospitalization.

## Alternative Names

Stools - bloody; Melena; Stools - black or tarry; Upper gastrointestinal
bleeding

## Patient Instructions

    * Diverticulitis and diverticulosis - discharge
    * Diverticulitis - what to ask your doctor 
    * Ulcerative colitis - discharge

## References

Chaptini L, Peikin S. Gastrointestinal bleeding. In: Parrillo JE, Dellinger
RP, eds. _Critical Care Medicine: Principles of Diagnosis and Management in
the Adult_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 76.

McQuaid KR. Approach to the patient with gastrointestinal disease. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 132.

Meguerdichian DA, Goralnick E. Gastrointestinal bleeding. In: Walls RM,
Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and
Clinical Practice._ 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 27.

Savides TJ, Jensen DM. Gastrointestinal bleeding. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS,
Brandt LJ eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease._
10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 20.

## Review Date 4/12/2018

Updated by: Subodh K. Lal, MD, gastroenterologist with Gastrointestinal
Specialists of Georgia, Smyrna, GA. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bowel Movement](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BowelMovement_thumb.jpg)Bowel
Movement _Read more_

![Colorectal
Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ColorectalCancer_thumb.jpg)Colorectal
Cancer _Read more_

![Crohn's
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Crohn'sDisease_thumb.jpg)Crohn's
Disease _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

