Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003133.htm    
                                Description: Gastrointestinal (GI) bleeding refers to any bleeding that starts in the gastrointestinal tract.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Gastrointestinal bleeding

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003133.htm

# Gastrointestinal bleeding

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Gastrointestinal (GI) bleeding refers to any bleeding that starts in the
gastrointestinal tract.

Bleeding may come from any site along the GI tract, but is often divided into:

    * Upper GI bleeding: The upper GI tract includes the esophagus (the tube from the mouth to the stomach), stomach, and first part of the small intestine.
    * Lower GI bleeding: The lower GI tract includes much of the small intestine, large intestine or bowels, rectum, and anus.

## Considerations

The amount of GI bleeding may be so small that it can only be detected on a
lab test such as the fecal occult blood test. Other signs of GI bleeding
include:

    * Dark, tarry stools
    * Larger amounts of blood passed from the rectum 
    * Small amounts of blood in the toilet bowl, on toilet paper, or in streaks on stool (feces)
    * Vomiting blood 

Massive bleeding from the GI tract can be dangerous. However, even very small
amounts of bleeding that occur over a long period of time can lead to problems
such as anemia or low blood counts.

Once a bleeding site is found, many therapies are available to stop the
bleeding or treat the cause.

## Causes

GI bleeding may be due to conditions that are not serious, including:

    * Anal fissure
    * Hemorrhoids

GI bleeding may also be a sign of more serious diseases and conditions. These
may include cancers of the GI tract such as:

    * Cancer of the colon
    * Cancer of the small intestine
    * Cancer of the stomach
    * Intestinal polyps (a pre-cancerous condition)

Other causes of GI bleeding may include:

    * Abnormal blood vessels in the lining of the intestines (also called angiodysplasia)
    * Bleeding diverticulum, or diverticulosis
    * Crohn disease or ulcerative colitis
    * Esophageal varices
    * Esophagitis
    * Gastric (stomach) ulcer
    * Intussusception (bowel telescoped on itself)
    * Mallory-Weiss tear
    * Meckel diverticulum
    * Radiation injury to the bowel 

## Home Care

There are home stool tests for microscopic blood that may be recommended for
people with anemia or for colon cancer screening.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if:

    * You have black, tarry stools (this may be a sign of GI bleeding)
    * You have blood in your stool
    * You vomit blood or you vomit material that looks like coffee grounds 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider may discover GI bleeding during an exam at your office visit.

GI bleeding can be an emergency condition that requires immediate medical
care. Treatment may involve:

    * Blood transfusions.
    * Fluids and medicines through a vein.
    * Esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD). A thin tube with a camera on the end is passed through your mouth into your esophagus, stomach, and small intestine.
    * A tube is placed through your mouth into the stomach to drain the stomach contents (gastric lavage).

Once your condition is stable, you will have a physical exam and a detailed
exam of your abdomen. You will also be asked questions about your symptoms,
including:

    * When did you first notice symptoms?
    * Did you have black, tarry stools or red blood in the stools?
    * Have you vomited blood?
    * Did you vomit material that looks like coffee grounds?
    * Do you have a history of peptic or duodenal ulcers?
    * Have you ever had symptoms like this before?
    * What other symptoms do you have? 

Tests that may be done include:

    * Abdominal CT scan
    * Abdominal MRI scan
    * Abdominal x-ray
    * Angiography
    * Bleeding scan (tagged red blood cell scan)
    * Blood clotting tests
    * Capsule endoscopy (camera pill that is swallowed to look at the small intestine)
    * Colonoscopy
    * Complete blood count (CBC), clotting tests, platelet count, and other laboratory tests
    * Enteroscopy
    * Sigmoidoscopy 
    * EGD or esophago-gastro endoscopy

## Alternative Names

Lower GI bleeding; GI bleeding; Upper GI bleeding; Hematochezia

## Images

    * ![GI bleeding - series - Normal anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/15845t.jpg)GI bleeding - series
    * ![Fecal occult blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19814t.jpg)Fecal occult blood test

## References

Kovacs TO, Jensen DM. Gastrointestinal hemorrhage. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI,
eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 135.

Meguerdichian DA, Goralnick E. Gastrointestinal bleeding. In: Walls RM,
Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and
Clinical Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 27.

Savides TJ, Jensen DM. Gastrointestinal bleeding. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS,
Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 20.

## Review Date 12/27/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Gastrointestinal
Bleeding](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GastrointestinalBleeding_thumb.jpg)Gastrointestinal
Bleeding _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

