Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003118.htm    
                                Description: Vomiting blood is regurgitating (throwing up) contents of the stomach that contains blood.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Vomiting blood

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003118.htm

# Vomiting blood

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Vomiting blood is regurgitating (throwing up) contents of the stomach that
contains blood.

Vomited blood may appear bright red, dark red, or look like coffee grounds.
The vomited material may be mixed with food or it may be blood only.

## Considerations

It may be hard to tell the difference between vomiting blood and coughing up
blood (from the lung) or a nosebleed.

Conditions that cause vomiting blood can also cause blood in the stool.

## Causes

The upper GI (gastrointestinal) tract includes the mouth, throat, esophagus
(swallowing tube), stomach and the duodenum (first part of the small
intestine). Blood that is vomited may come from any of these places.

Vomiting that is very forceful or continues for a very long time may cause a
tear in the small blood vessels of the throat. This may produce streaks of
blood in the vomit.

Swollen veins in the walls of the lower part of the esophagus, and sometimes
the stomach, may begin to bleed. These veins (called varices) are present in
people with severe liver damage.

Repeated vomiting and retching may cause bleeding and damage to the lower
esophagus called Mallory Weiss tears.

Other causes may include:

    * Bleeding ulcer in the stomach, first part of the small intestine, or esophagus
    * Blood clotting disorders
    * Defects in the blood vessels of the GI tract
    * Swelling, irritation, or inflammation of the esophagus lining (esophagitis) or the stomach lining (gastritis)
    * Swallowing blood (for example, after a nosebleed)
    * Tumors of the mouth, throat, stomach or esophagus

## Home Care

Get medical attention right away. Vomiting blood can be a result of a serious
medical problem.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider or go to the emergency room if vomiting of
blood occurs. You will need to be examined right away.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will examine you and ask questions such as:

    * When did the vomiting begin?
    * Have you ever vomited blood before?
    * How much blood was in the vomit?
    * What color was the blood? (Bright or dark red or like coffee grounds?)
    * Have you had any recent nosebleeds, surgeries, dental work, vomiting, stomach problems, or severe coughing?
    * What other symptoms do you have?
    * What medical conditions do you have?
    * What medicines do you take?
    * Do you drink alcohol or smoke? 

Tests that may be done include:

    * Blood work, such as a complete blood count (CBC), blood chemistries, blood clotting tests, and liver function tests
    * Esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) (placing a lit tube through the mouth into the esophagus, stomach and duodenum)
    * Rectal examination
    * Tube through the nose into the stomach and then applying suction to check for blood in the stomach
    * X-rays 

If you have vomited a lot of blood, you may need emergency treatment. This may
include:

    * Administration of oxygen
    * Blood transfusions
    * EGD with application of laser or other modalities to stop the bleeding
    * Fluids through a vein
    * Medicines to decrease stomach acid
    * Possible surgery if bleeding does not stop 

## Alternative Names

Hematemesis; Blood in the vomit

## References

Kovacs TO, Jensen DM. Gastrointestinal hemorrhage. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI,
eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 135.

Meguerdichian DA, Goralnick E. Gastrointestinal bleeding. In: Walls RM,
Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and
Clinical Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 27.

Savides TJ, Jensen DM. Gastrointestinal bleeding. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS,
Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 20.

## Review Date 12/27/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Gastrointestinal
Bleeding](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GastrointestinalBleeding_thumb.jpg)Gastrointestinal
Bleeding _Read more_

![Nausea and
Vomiting](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NauseaandVomiting_thumb.jpg)Nausea
and Vomiting _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

