Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003490.htm    
                                Description: The ferritin blood test measures the level of ferritin in the blood.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ferritin blood test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003490.htm

# Ferritin blood test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The ferritin blood test measures the level of ferritin in the blood.

Ferritin is a protein inside your cells that stores iron. It allows your body
to use the iron when it needs it. A ferritin test indirectly measures the
amount of iron in your blood.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Your health care provider may tell you not to eat anything (to fast) for 12
hours before the test. You may also be told to have the test done in the
morning.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or a slight bruise. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

The amount of ferritin in the blood (serum ferritin level) is directly related
to the amount of iron stored in your body. Iron is needed to make healthy red
blood cells. These cells carry oxygen to body tissues.

Your provider may recommend this test if you have signs or symptoms of anemia
due to low iron. Anemia is a condition in which the body does not have enough
healthy red blood cells.

## Normal Results

Normal value range is:

    * Male: 12 to 300 nanograms per millilter (ng/mL)
    * Female: 12 to 150 ng/mL

The lower the ferritin level, even within the "normal" range, the more likely
it is that the person does not have enough iron.

The number ranges above are common measurements for results of these tests.
Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your provider
about the meaning of your specific results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A higher-than-normal ferritin level may be due to:

    * Liver disease due to alcohol abuse
    * Any autoimmune disorder, such as rheumatoid arthritis
    * Frequent transfusion of red blood cells
    * Too much iron in the body (hemochromatosis) 

A lower-than-normal level of ferritin occurs if you have anemia caused by low
iron levels in the body. This type of anemia may be due to:

    * A diet too low in iron
    * Heavy bleeding from an injury
    * Heavy menstrual bleeding
    * Poor absorption of iron from food, medicines, or vitamins
    * Bleeding in the esophagus, stomach, or intestines 

## Risks

Veins and arteries vary in size from one person to another and from one side
of the body to the other. Obtaining a blood sample from some people may be
more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Hematoma (blood buildup under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

## Alternative Names

Serum ferritin level; Iron deficiency anemia - ferritin

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Brittenham GM. Disorders of iron homeostasis: iron deficiency and overload.
In: Hoffman R, Benz EJ, Silberstein LE, et al, eds. _Hematology: Basic
Principles and Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 36.

Dominiczak MH, Broom, JI. Vitamins and minerals. In: Baynes JW, Dominiczak MH,
eds. _Medical Biochemistry_. 4th ed. Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 11.

Ferri FF. Diseases and disorders. In: Ferri FF, ed. _Ferri's Best Test_. 4th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier, 2019:229-426..

Ginder GD. Microcytic and hypochromic anemias. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 159.

Paulman P. Iron deficiency anemia. In: Kellerman RD, Bope ET, eds. _Conn's
Current Therapy 2018_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2018;403-405.

## Review Date 1/10/2018

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Anemia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Anemia_thumb.jpg)Anemia _Read more_

![Gastrointestinal
Bleeding](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GastrointestinalBleeding_thumb.jpg)Gastrointestinal
Bleeding _Read more_

![Hemochromatosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hemochromatosis_thumb.jpg)Hemochromatosis
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

