Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003393.htm    
                                Description: The stool guaiac test looks for hidden (occult) blood in a stool sample. It can find blood even if you cannot see it yourself. It is the most common type of fecal occult blood test (FOBT).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Stool guaiac test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003393.htm

# Stool guaiac test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The stool guaiac test looks for hidden (occult) blood in a stool sample. It
can find blood even if you cannot see it yourself. It is the most common type
of fecal occult blood test (FOBT).

Guaiac is a substance from a plant that is used to coat the FOBT test cards.

## How the Test is Performed

Usually, you collect a small sample of stool at home. Sometimes, a doctor may
collect a small amount of stool from you during a rectal examination.

If the test is done at home, you use a test kit. Follow the kit instructions
exactly. This ensures accurate results. In brief:

    * You collect a stool sample from 3 different bowel movements.
    * For each bowel movement, you smear a small amount of the stool on a card provided in the kit.
    * You mail the card to a laboratory for testing. 

DO NOT take stool samples from the toilet bowl water. This can cause errors.

For infants and young children wearing diapers, you can line the diaper with
plastic wrap. Place the plastic wrap so that it keeps the stool away from any
urine. Mixing of urine and stool can spoil the sample.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Some foods can affect test results. Follow instructions about not eating
certain foods before the test. These may include:

    * Red meat
    * Cantaloupe
    * Uncooked broccoli
    * Turnip
    * Radish
    * Horseradish

Some medicines may interfere with the test. These include vitamin C, aspirin,
and NSAIDs such as ibuprofen and naproxen. Ask your health care provider if
you need to stop taking these before the test. Never stop or change your
medicine without first talking to your provider.

## How the Test will Feel

The at-home test involves a normal bowel movement. There is no discomfort.

You may have some discomfort if the stool is collected during a rectal exam.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test detects blood in the digestive tract. It may be done if:

    * You are being screened or tested for colon cancer.Â 
    * You have abdominal pain, changes in bowel movements, or weight loss.
    * You have anemia (low blood count).
    * You say you have blood in the stool or black, tarry stools.Â 

## Normal Results

A negative test result means that there is no blood in the stool.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be due to problems that cause bleeding in the stomach or
intestinal tract, including:

    * Colon cancer or other gastrointestinal (GI) tumors
    * Colon polyps
    * Bleeding veins in the esophagus or stomach (esophageal varices and portal hypertensive gastropathy)
    * Inflammation of the esophagus (esophagitis)
    * Inflammation of the stomach (gastritis) from GI infections
    * Hemorrhoids
    * Crohn disease or ulcerative colitis
    * Peptic ulcer

Other causes of positive test may include:

    * Nosebleed
    * Coughing up blood and then swallowing it 

If the stool guaiac results come back positive for blood in the stool, your
doctor will likely order other tests, often including a colonoscopy.

The stool guaiac test does not diagnose cancer. Screening tests such as
colonoscopy can help detect cancer. The stool guaiac test and other screenings
can catch colon cancer early, when it is easier to treat.

## Risks

There can be false-positive and false-negative results.

Errors are reduced when you follow instructions during collection and avoid
certain foods and medicines.

## Alternative Names

Colon cancer - guaiac test; Colorectal cancer - guaiac test; gFOBT; Guaiac
smear test; Fecal occult blood test - guaiac smear; Stool occult blood test -
guaiac smear

## Images

    * ![Fecal occult blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19814t.jpg)Fecal occult blood test

## References

Rex DK, Boland CR, Dominitz JA, et al. Colorectal cancer screening:
recommendations for physicians and patients from the U.S. Multi-Society Task
Force on colorectal cancer. _Am J Gastroenterol._ 2017;112(7):1016-1030. PMID:
28555630 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28555630.

Savides TJ, Jensen DM. Gastrointestinal bleeding. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS,
Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/ Management._ 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 20.

US Preventive Services Task Force, Bibbins-Domingo K, Grossman DC, et al.
Screening for colorectal cancer: US Preventive Services Task Force
recommendation statement. _JAMA._ 2016;315(23):2564-2575. PMID: 27304597
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27304597.

## Review Date 1/15/2020

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Anemia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Anemia_thumb.jpg)Anemia _Read more_

![Bowel Movement](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BowelMovement_thumb.jpg)Bowel
Movement _Read more_

![Colorectal
Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ColorectalCancer_thumb.jpg)Colorectal
Cancer _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

