Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002996.htm    
                                Description: Transurethral resection of the prostateÂ (TURP) is a surgery to remove the inside part of the prostate gland. It is done in order to treat symptoms of an enlarged prostate.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Transurethral resection of the prostate

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002996.htm

# Transurethral resection of the prostate

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Transurethral resection of the prostateÂ (TURP) is a surgery to remove the
inside part of the prostate gland. It is done in order to treat symptoms of an
enlarged prostate.

## Description

The surgery takes about 1 to 2 hours.

You will be given medicine before surgery so you don't feel pain. You may get
general anesthesia in which you are asleep and pain-free or spinal anesthesia
in which you are awake, but numb from the waist and below.

The surgeon will insert a scope through the tube that carries urine from your
bladder out of the penis. This instrument is called the resectoscope. A
special cutting tool is placed through the scope. It is used to remove the
inside part of your prostate gland using electricity.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Your health care provider may recommend this surgery if you have benign
prostatic hyperplasia (BPH). The prostate gland often grows larger as men get
older. The larger prostate may cause problems with urinating. Removing part of
the prostate gland can often make these symptoms better.

TURP may be recommended if you have:

    * Difficulty emptying your bladder
    * Frequent urinary tract infections
    * Bleeding from the prostate
    * Bladder stones with prostate enlargement
    * Extremely slow urination
    * Damage to the kidneys due to an inability to urinate
    * Getting up often at night to urinate
    * Bladder control issues due to a large prostate 

Before you have surgery, your provider will suggest you make changes in how
you eat or drink. You may also be asked to try taking medicine. Part of your
prostate may need to be removed if these steps do not help. TURP is one of the
most common types of prostate surgery. Other procedures are also available.

Your provider will consider the following when deciding on the type of
surgery:

    * Size of your prostate gland
    * Your health
    * What type of surgery you may want
    * The severity of your symptoms 

## Risks

Risks for any surgery are:

    * Blood clots in the legs that may travel to the lungs
    * Breathing problems
    * Infection, including in the surgical wound, lungs (pneumonia), or bladder or kidney
    * Blood loss
    * Heart attack or stroke during surgery
    * Reactions to medicines

Additional risks are:

    * Problems with urine control
    * Loss of sperm fertility
    * Erection problems
    * Passing the semen into the bladder instead of out through the urethra (retrograde ejaculation)
    * Urethral stricture (tightening of the urinary outlet from scar tissue)
    * Transurethral resection (TUR) syndrome (water buildup during surgery)
    * Damage to internal organs and structures 

## Before the Procedure

You will have many visits with your provider and tests before your surgery.
Your visit will include:

    * Complete physical exam
    * Treating and controlling diabetes, high blood pressure, heart or lung problems, and other conditions 

If you are a smoker, you should stop several weeks before the surgery. Your
provider can give you tips on how to do this.

Always tell your provider what drugs, vitamins, and other supplements you are
taking, even ones you bought without a prescription.

During the weeks before your surgery:

    * You may be asked to stop taking medicines that can thin your blood, such as aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn), vitamin E, clopidogrel (Plavix), warfarin (Coumadin), apixaban (Eliquis), and others.
    * Ask your provider which drugs you should still take on the day of your surgery. 

On the day of your surgery:

    * DO NOT eat or drink anything after midnight the night before your surgery.
    * Take the drugs you have been told you to take with a small sip of water.
    * You will be told when to arrive at the hospital. 

## After the Procedure

You will most often stay in the hospital for 1 to 3 days. In some cases, you
may be allowed to go home the same day.

After surgery, you will have a small tube, called a Foley catheter, in your
bladder to remove urine. Your bladder may be flushed with fluids (irrigated)
to keep it clear of clots. The urine will look bloody at first. In most cases,
the blood goes away within a few days. Blood can also seep around the
catheter. A special solution may be used to flush out the catheter and keep it
from getting clogged with blood. The catheter will be removed within 1 to 3
days for most people.

You will be able to go back to eating a normal diet right away.

Your health care team will:

    * Help you change positions in bed.
    * Teach you exercises to keep blood flowing.
    * Teach you how to perform coughing and deep breathing techniques. You should do these every 3 to 4 hours.
    * Tell you how to care for yourself after your procedure. 

You may need to wear tight stockings and use a breathing device to keep your
lungs clear.

You may be given medicine to relieve bladder spasms.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

TURP relieves symptoms of an enlarged prostate most of the time. You may have
burning with urination, blood in your urine, frequent urination, and need to
urgently urinate.Â This usually resolves after a little bit of time.

## Alternative Names

TURP; Prostate resection - transurethral

## Patient Instructions

    * Bathroom safety for adults
    * Enlarged prostate - what to ask your doctor 
    * Indwelling catheter care
    * Kegel exercises - self-care
    * Preventing falls
    * Surgical wound care - open
    * Transurethral resection of the prostate - discharge 

## Images

    * ![Male reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1113t.jpg)Male reproductive anatomy
    * ![Prostate gland](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9785t.jpg)Prostate gland
    * ![Prostatectomy - series - Normal anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10053t.jpg)Prostatectomy - Series
    * ![Transurethral Resection of the Prostate \(TURP\) - Series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10058t.jpg)Transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP) - Series

## References

Foster HE, Dahm P, Kohler TS, et al. Surgical management of lower urinary
tract symptoms attributed to benign prostatic hyperplasia: AUA Guideline
Amendment 2019. _J Urol_. 2019;202(3):592-598. PMID: 31059668
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31059668.

Han M, Partin AW. Simple prostatectomy: open and robot-assisted laparoscopic
approaches. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-
Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 106.

Milam DF. Transurethral resection and transurethral incision of the prostate.
In: Smith JA Jr, Howards SS, Preminger GM, Dmochowski RR, eds. _Hinman's Atlas
of Urologic Surgery_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 67.

Roehrborn CG. Benign prostatic hyperplasia: etiology, pathophysiology,
epidemiology, and natural history. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters
CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 103.

## Review Date 7/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Enlarged Prostate
\(BPH\)](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EnlargedProstate\(BPH\)_thumb.jpg)Enlarged
Prostate (BPH) _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

