Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000398.htm    
                                Description: Your health care provider has told you that you have an enlarged prostate gland. Here are some things to know about your condition.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Enlarged prostate - after care

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000398.htm

# Enlarged prostate - after care

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Your health care provider has told you that you have an enlarged prostate
gland. Here are some things to know about your condition.

## What to Expect at Home

The prostate is a gland that produces the fluid that carries sperm during
ejaculation. It surrounds the tube through which urine passes out of the body
(the urethra).

An enlarged prostate means the gland has grown bigger. As the gland grows, it
can block the urethra and cause problems, such as:

    * Not being able to fully empty your bladder
    * Needing to urinate two or more times per night
    * Slowed or delayed start of the urinary stream and dribbling at the end
    * Straining to urinate and weak urine stream
    * Strong and sudden urge to urinate or a loss of urinary control

## Lifestyle Changes

The following changes may help you control symptoms:

    * Urinate when you first get the urge. Also, go to the bathroom on a timed schedule, even if you do not feel a need to urinate.
    * Avoid alcohol and caffeine, especially after dinner.
    * DO NOT drink a lot of fluid all at once. Spread out fluids over the day. Avoid drinking fluids within 2 hours of bedtime.
    * Keep warm and exercise regularly. Cold weather and lack of physical activity may worsen symptoms.
    * Reduce stress. Nervousness and tension can lead to more frequent urination. 

## Medicines, Herbs, and Supplements

Your health care provider may have you take a medicine called alpha-1-
blocker. Most people find that these drugs help their symptoms. Symptoms often
get better soon after starting on the medicine. You must take this medicine
every day. There are several medicines in this category, including terazosin
(Hytrin), doxazosin (Cardura), tamsulosin (Flomax), alfusozin (Uroxatrol), and
silodosin (Rapaflo).

    * Common side effects include nasal stuffiness, headaches, lightheadedness when you stand up, and weakness. You may also notice less semen when you ejaculate. This is not a medical problem but some men don't like how it feels.
    * Ask your provider before taking sildenafil (Viagra), vardenafil (Levitra), and tadalafil (Cialis) with alpha-1- blockers because there can sometimes be an interaction. 

Other drugs such as finasteride or dutasteride may also be prescribed. These
medicines help shrink the prostate over time and help with symptoms.

    * You will need to take these drugs every day for 3 to 6 months before your symptoms begin to improve.
    * Side effects include less interest in sex and less semen when you ejaculate. 

Watch out for drugs that may make your symptoms worse:

    * Try NOT to take over-the-counter cold and sinus medicines that contain decongestants or antihistamines. They can make your symptoms worse.
    * Men who are taking water pills or diuretics may want to talk to their provider about reducing the dosage or switching to another type of drug.
    * Other drugs that may worsen symptoms are certain antidepressants and drugs used to treat spasticity. 

Many herbs and supplements have been tried for treating an enlarged prostate.

    * Saw palmetto has been used by millions of men to ease BPH symptoms. It is unclear whether this herb is effective in relieving the signs and symptoms of BPH.
    * Talk with your provider about any herbs or supplements you are taking.
    * Often, makers of herbal remedies and dietary supplements do not need approval from the FDA to sell their products. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider right away if you have:

    * Less urine than usual
    * Fever or chills
    * Back, side, or abdominal pain
    * Blood or pus in your urine 

Also call if:

    * Your bladder does not feel completely empty after you urinate.
    * You take medicines that may cause urinary problems. These may include diuretics, antihistamines, antidepressants, or sedatives. DO NOT stop or change your medicines without first talking to your doctor.
    * You have taken tried self-care steps and your symptoms have not gotten better. 

## Alternative Names

BPH - self-care; Benign prostatic hypertrophy - self-care; Benign prostatic
hyperplasia - self-care

## Images

    * ![BPH](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18005t.jpg)BPH

## References

Aronson JK. Finasteride. In: Aronson JK, ed. _Meyler's Side Effects of Drugs_.
16th ed. Waltham, MA: Elsevier; 2016:314-320.

Kaplan SA. Benign prostatic hyperplasia and prostatitis. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2020:chap 120.

McVary KT, Roehrborn CG, Avins AL, et al. Update on AUA guideline on the
management of benign prostatic hyperplasia. _J Urol_. 2011;185(5):1793-1803.
PMID: 21420124 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21420124.

McNicholas TA, Speakman MJ, Kirby RS. Evaluation and nonsurgical management of
benign prostatic hyperplasia. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA,
eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap
104.

Samarinas M, Gravas S. The relationship between inflammation and LUTS/BPH. In:
Morgia G, ed. _Lower Urinary Tract Symptoms and Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia_.
Cambridge, MA: Elsevier Academic Press; 2018:chap 3.

## Review Date 7/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Enlarged Prostate (BPH)

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

