Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000299.htm    
                                Description: You had minimally invasive prostate resection surgery to remove part of your prostate gland because it was enlarged. This article tells you what you need to know to take care of yourself as you recover    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Prostate resection - minimally invasive - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000299.htm

# Prostate resection - minimally invasive - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You had minimally invasive prostate resection surgery to remove part of your
prostate gland because it was enlarged. This article tells you what you need
to know to take care of yourself as you recover from the procedure.

## When You Were in the Hospital

Your procedure was done in your health care provider's office or at an
outpatient surgery clinic. You may have stayed in the hospital for a night.

## What to Expect at Home

You can do most of your normal activities within a few weeks. You may go home
with a urine catheter. Your urine may be bloody at first, but this will go
away. You may have bladder pain or spasms for the first 1 to 2 weeks.

## Self-care

Drink plenty of water to help flush fluids through your bladder (8 to 10
glasses a day). Avoid coffee, soft drinks, and alcohol. They can irritate your
bladder and urethra, the tube that brings urine from your bladder out of your
body.

Eat a normal, healthy diet with plenty of fiber. You may get constipation from
pain medicines and being less active. You can use a stool softener or fiber
supplement to help prevent this problem.

Take your medicines as you have been told. You may need to take antibiotics to
help prevent infection. Check with your provider before taking aspirin or
other over-the-counter pain relievers such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) or
acetaminophen (Tylenol).

You may take showers. But avoid baths if you have a catheter. You can take
baths once your catheter is removed. Make sure your provider clears you for
baths to make sure your incisions are healing well.

You will need to make sure your catheter is working properly. You will also
need to know how to empty and clean the tube and the area where it attaches to
your body. This can prevent infection or skin irritation.

After your catheter is removed:

    * You may have some urine leakage (incontinence). This should get better over time. You should have close-to-normal bladder control within a month.
    * You will learn exercises that strengthen the muscles in your pelvis. These are called Kegel exercises. You can do these exercises any time you are sitting or lying down. 

You will return to your normal routine over time. You should not do any
strenuous activity, chores, or lifting (more than 5 pounds or more than 2
kilograms) for at least 1 week. You can return to work when you have recovered
and are able to do most activities.

    * DO NOT drive until you are no longer taking pain medicines and your doctor says it is OK. Do not drive while you have a catheter in place. Avoid long car rides until your catheter is removed.
    * Avoid sexual activity for 3 to 4 weeks or until the catheter comes out. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

    * It is hard to breathe
    * You have a cough that does not go away
    * You cannot drink or eat
    * Your temperature is above 100.5Â°F (38Â°C)
    * Your urine contains a thick, yellow, green, or milky drainage
    * You have signs of infection (a burning sensation when you urinate, fever, or chills)
    * Your urine stream is not as strong, or you cannot pass any urine at all
    * You have pain, redness, or swelling in your legs 

While you have a urinary catheter, call your provider if:

    * You have pain near the catheter
    * You are leaking urine
    * You notice more blood in your urine
    * Your catheter seems blocked
    * You notice grit or stones in your urine
    * Your urine smells bad, it is cloudy, or a different color 

## Alternative Names

Laser prostatectomy - discharge; Transurethral needle ablation - discharge;
TUNA - discharge; Transurethral incision - discharge; TUIP - discharge;
Holmium laser enucleation of the prostate - discharge; HoLep - discharge;
Interstitial laser coagulation - discharge; ILC - discharge; Photoselective
vaporization of the prostate - discharge; PVP - discharge; Transurethral
electrovaporization - discharge; TUVP - discharge; Transurethral microwave
thermotherapy - discharge; TUMT - discharge; Water vapor therapy (Rezum);
Urolift

## References

Abrams P, Chapple C, Khoury S, Roehrborn C, de la Rosette J; International
Consultation on New Developments in Prostate Cancer and Prostate Diseases.
Evaluation and treatment of lower urinary tract symptoms in older men. _J
Urol_. 2013;189(1 Suppl):S93-S101. PMID: 23234640
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23234640.

Han M, Partin AW. Simple prostatectomy: open and robot assisted laparoscopic
approaches. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-
Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 106.

Welliver C, McVary KT. Minimally invasive and endoscopic management of benign
prostatic hyperplasia. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds.
_Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 105.

Zhao PT, Richstone L. Roboic-assisted and laparoscopic simple prostatectomy.
In: Bishoff JT, Kavoussi LR, eds. _Atlas of Laparoscopic and Robotic Urologic
Surgery_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 32.

## Read More

    * Enlarged prostate
    * Prostate resection - minimally invasive
    * Retrograde ejaculation
    * Urinary incontinence

## Patient Instructions

    * Enlarged prostate - what to ask your doctor 
    * Indwelling catheter care
    * Kegel exercises - self-care
    * Suprapubic catheter care
    * Urinary catheters - what to ask your doctor
    * Urine drainage bags

## Review Date 4/2/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Enlarged Prostate (BPH)

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

