Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000300.htm    
                                Description: You had transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP) surgery to treat an enlarged prostate. This article tells you how to take care of yourself at home after the procedure.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Transurethral resection of the prostate - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000300.htm

# Transurethral resection of the prostate - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You had transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP) surgery to treat an
enlarged prostate. This article tells you how to take care of yourself at home
after the procedure.

## When You're in the Hospital

You had transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP) surgery to treat an
enlarged prostate.

Your surgeon inserted a tube-like tool called a cystoscope (or endoscope)
through your urethra (the tube that carries urine from the bladder out of the
penis). Your surgeon used a special cutting tool to remove part of your
prostate gland piece by piece.

## What to Expect at Home

You can expect to start doing most of your normal activities in 3 to 6 weeks.
Problems you may notice include:

    * Problems with urine control or leakage after sneezing, coughing, or lifting.
    * Erection problems (impotence).
    * Absence of semen or decrease in volume. Semen travels up into the bladder instead of out through the urethra. This is called retrograde ejaculation. It is not harmful but can interfere with your ability to get women pregnant. It can be permanent.
    * Burning or pain during urination.
    * Passing blood clots. 

## Self-care

You should rest as often as you need to the first few weeks after surgery. But
you should also do regular, short periods of movement to build up your
strength. While resting, continue to do some of the bedside exercises and
breathing techniques your nurse showed you.

Gradually return to your normal routine. You should not do any strenuous
activity, lifting (more than 5 pounds or more than 2 kilograms), or driving
for 3 to 6 weeks.

Try taking regular, short walks. Work up to longer walks to build up your
strength. You can return to work when you are better and can tolerate most
activities.

Drink plenty of water to help flush fluids through the bladder (8 to 10
glasses a day). Avoid coffee, soft drinks, and alcohol. They can irritate your
bladder and urethra.

Eat a healthy diet with plenty of fiber. You may use a stool softener or fiber
supplement to help prevent constipation, which can delay the healing process.

For the first few weeks after surgery, take only the medicines your health
care provider has told you to take.

    * You may need to take antibiotics to help prevent infection.
    * Check with your doctor before taking aspirin, ibuprofen (Aleve, Motrin), naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn), acetaminophen (Tylenol), or any other drugs like these. 

You may take showers. If you have a catheter, DO NOT take baths until it is
removed.

Avoid sexual activity for 3 to 4 weeks. Many men report a lower amount of
semen during orgasm after having TURP.

## Urinary Catheters

You may feel spasms in your bladder and may feel like you need to urinate
while you have a urinary catheter in place. Your provider can give you
medicine for these spasms. You may have urine come out around the catheter
because of the bladder spams. This is normal.

You will need to make sure your indwelling catheter works right. You will also
need to know how to clean the tube and the area where it attaches to your
body. This will prevent infection and skin irritation. There should be urine
draining and filling the bag if the catheter is working properly. Call your
provider if you have not seen any urine drain in an hour.

The urine in your drainage bag may look darker red. This is normal.

After your catheter is removed:

    * You may have some urine leakage (incontinence). This should get better over time. You should have close-to-normal bladder control within 3 to 6 months.
    * You will learn exercises (Kegel exercises) that strengthen the muscles in your pelvis. You can do these exercises any time you are sitting or lying down.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

    * You have pain in your belly that is not helped with your pain medicines
    * It is hard to breathe
    * You have a cough that does not go away
    * You cannot drink or eat
    * Your temperature is above 100.5Â°F (38Â°C)
    * Your urine has a thick, yellow, green, or milky drainage
    * You have signs of infection (burning sensation when you urinate, fever, or chills)
    * Your urine stream is not as strong, or you cannot pass any urine at all
    * You have pain, redness, or swelling in your legs 

While you have a urinary catheter, call your provider if:

    * You have pain near the catheter
    * You are leaking urine
    * You notice more blood in your urine
    * Your catheter seems blocked and is not draining urine
    * You notice grit or stones in your urine
    * Your urine smells bad, or it is cloudy or a different color 

## Alternative Names

TURP - discharge; Prostate resection - transurethral - discharge

## References

Delongchamps NB. Surgical management of LUTS/BPH: new mini-invasive
techniques. In: Morgia G, ed. _Lower Urinary Tract Symptoms and Benign
Prostatic Hyperplasia_. Cambridge, MA: Elsevier Academic Press; 2018:chap 14.

Roehrborn CG. Benign prostatic hyperplasia: etiology, pathophysiology,
epidemiology, and natural history. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters
CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 103.

Welliver C, McVary KT. Minimally invasive and endoscopic management of benign
prostatic hyperplasia. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds.
_Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 105.

## Read More

    * Enlarged prostate
    * Prostate resection - minimally invasive
    * Retrograde ejaculation
    * Simple prostatectomy
    * Transurethral resection of the prostate
    * Urinary incontinence

## Patient Instructions

    * Enlarged prostate - what to ask your doctor 
    * Indwelling catheter care
    * Kegel exercises - self-care
    * Suprapubic catheter care
    * Urinary catheters - what to ask your doctor
    * Urine drainage bags

## Review Date 4/2/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Enlarged Prostate (BPH)

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

