Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/anatomyvideos/000050.htm    
                                Description: The prostate gland is located underneath the bladder and is about the size of a chestnut.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Videos & Tools ->

Health Videos ->

Enlarged prostate gland

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/anatomyvideos/000050.htm

# Enlarged prostate gland

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Play health video: //medlineplus.gov/ency/videos/mov/200003_eng.mp4

What's this?Play health video with audio description:
//medlineplus.gov/ency/videos/mov/200003_eng_ad.mp4

## Overview

The prostate gland is located underneath the bladder and is about the size of
a chestnut.

In this cut section, you can see that part of the urethra is encased within
the prostate gland. As a man ages, the prostate typically enlarges in size in
a process called benign hypertrophy, which means that the gland got larger
without becoming cancerous.

The enlarged prostate crowds its anatomical neighbors, particularly the
urethra, causing it to narrow. The narrowed urethra results in several of the
symptoms of benign prostatic hypertrophy, or BPH. Symptoms may include a
slowed or delayed start in urination, the need to urinate frequently during
the night, difficulty in emptying the bladder, a strong, sudden urge to
urinate, and incontinence. Less than half of all men with BPH have symptoms of
the disease, or their symptoms are minor and do not restrict their life style.

BPH is a normal physiological process of aging and treatment options are
available. The choice of the appropriate treatment is based on the severity of
the symptoms, the extent to which they affect lifestyle, and the presence of
other medical conditions. Men with BPH should consult with their physician
yearly to monitor the progression of the symptoms and decide the best course
of treatment as needed.

## Review Date 7/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Enlarged Prostate (BPH)

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

