Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007416.htm    
                                Description: Simple prostate removal is a procedure to remove the inside part of the prostate gland to treat an enlarged prostate. It is done through a surgical cut in your lower belly.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Simple prostatectomy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007416.htm

# Simple prostatectomy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Simple prostate removal is a procedure to remove the inside part of the
prostate gland to treat an enlarged prostate. It is done through a surgical
cut in your lower belly.

## Description

You will be given general anesthesia (asleep, pain-free) or spinal anesthesia
(sedated, awake, pain-free). The procedure takes about 2 to 4 hours.

Your surgeon will make a surgical cut in your lower belly. The cut will go
from below the belly button to just above the pubic bone or it may be made
horizontally just above the pubic bone. The bladder is opened and the prostate
gland is removed through this cut.

The surgeon removes only the inner part of the prostate gland. The outer part
is left behind. The process is similar to scooping out the inside of an orange
and leaving the peel intact. After removing part of your prostate, the surgeon
will close the outer shell of the prostate with stitches. A drain may be left
in your belly to help remove extra fluids after surgery. A catheter may also
be left in the bladder. This catheter may be in the urethra or in the lower
abdomen or you may have both. These catheters allow the bladder to rest and
heal.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

An enlarged prostate can cause problems with urinating. This can lead to
urinary tract infections. Taking out part of the prostate gland can often make
these symptoms better. Before you have surgery, your health care provider may
tell you some changes you can make in how you eat or drink. You may also be
asked to try taking medicine.

Prostate removal can be done in many different ways. The kind of procedure you
will have depends on the size of the prostate and what caused your prostate to
grow. Open simple prostatectomy is often used when the prostate is too large
for less invasive surgery. However, this method does not treat prostate
cancer. Radical prostatectomy may be needed for cancer.

Prostate removal may be recommended if you have:

    * Problems emptying your bladder (urinary retention)
    * Frequent urinary tract infections
    * Frequent bleeding from the prostate
    * Bladder stones with prostate enlargement
    * Very slow urination
    * Damage to the kidneys 

Your prostate may also need to be removed if taking medicine and changing your
diet do not help your symptoms.

## Risks

Risks for any surgery are:

    * Blood clots in the legs that may travel to the lungs
    * Blood loss
    * Breathing problems
    * Heart attack or stroke during surgery
    * Infection, including in the surgical wound, lungs (pneumonia), or bladder or kidney
    * Reactions to medicines 

Other risks are:

    * Damage to internal organs
    * Erection problems (impotence)
    * Loss of the ability for sperm to leave the body resulting in infertility
    * Passing semen back up into the bladder instead of out through the urethra (retrograde ejaculation)
    * Problems with urine control (incontinence)
    * Tightening of the urinary outlet from scar tissue (urethral stricture) 

## Before the Procedure

You will have many visits with your doctor and tests before your surgery:

    * Complete physical exam
    * Visits with your doctor to make sure medical problems (such as diabetes, high blood pressure, and heart or lung diseases) are being treated well 
    * Additional testing to confirm bladder function

If you are a smoker, you should stop several weeks before the surgery. Your
provider can help.

Always tell your provider what drugs, vitamins, and other supplements you are
taking, even ones you bought without a prescription.

During the weeks before your surgery:

    * You may need to stop taking aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn), vitamin E, clopidogrel (Plavix), warfarin (Coumadin), and any other medicines like these.
    * Ask your doctor which medicines you should still take on the day of your surgery.
    * You may take a special laxative the day before your surgery. This will clean out the contents of your colon. 

On the day of your surgery:

    * DO NOT eat or drink anything after midnight the night before your surgery.
    * Take the drugs you were told to take with a small sip of water.
    * You will be told when to arrive at the hospital. 

## After the Procedure

You will stay in the hospital for about 2 to 4 days.

    * You will need to stay in bed until the next morning.
    * After you are allowed to get up you will be asked to move around as much as possible.
    * Your nurse will help you change positions in bed.
    * You will also learn exercises to keep blood flowing, and coughing/deep breathing techniques.
    * You should do these exercises every 3 to 4 hours.
    * You may need to wear special compression stockings and use a breathing device to keep your lungs clear. 

You will leave surgery with a Foley catheter in your bladder. Some men have a
suprapubic catheter in their belly wall to help drain the bladder.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Many men recover in about 6 weeks. You can expect to be able to urinate as
usual without leaking urine.

## Alternative Names

Prostatectomy - simple; Suprapubic prostatectomy; Retropubic simple
prostatectomy; Open prostatectomy; Millen procedure

## Patient Instructions

    * Enlarged prostate - what to ask your doctor 
    * Transurethral resection of the prostate - discharge 

## References

Han M, Partin AW. Simple prostatectomy: open and robot-assisted laparoscopic
approaches. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-
Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 106.

Roehrborn CG. Benign prostatic hyperplasia: etiology, pathophysiology,
epidemiology, and natural history. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters
CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 103.

Zhao PT, Richstone L. Robotic-assisted and laparoscopic simple prostatectomy.
In: Bishoff JT, Kavoussi LR, eds. _Atlas of Laparoscopic and Robotic Urologic
Surgery_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 32.

## Review Date 4/2/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Enlarged Prostate
\(BPH\)](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EnlargedProstate\(BPH\)_thumb.jpg)Enlarged
Prostate (BPH) _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

