Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000381.htm    
                                Description: The prostate is a gland that produces some of the fluid that carries sperm during ejaculation. The prostate gland surrounds the urethra, the tube through which urine passes out of the body.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Enlarged prostate

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000381.htm

# Enlarged prostate

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The prostate is a gland that produces some of the fluid that carries sperm
during ejaculation. The prostate gland surrounds the urethra, the tube through
which urine passes out of the body.

![Male reproductive
anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/1113.jpg)

An enlarged prostate means the gland has grown bigger. Prostate enlargement
happens to almost all men as they get older.

An enlarged prostate is often called benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH). It is
not cancer, and it does not raise your risk for prostate cancer.

![Enlarged prostate
gland](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200003t.gif)Watch this video
about:Enlarged prostate gland

## Causes

The actual cause of prostate enlargement is unknown. Factors linked to aging
and changes in the cells of the testicles may have a role in the growth of the
gland, as well as testosterone levels. Men who have had their testicles
removed at a young age (for example, as a result of testicular cancer) do not
develop BPH.

Also, if the testicles are removed after a man develops BPH, the prostate
begins to shrink in size. However, this is not a standard treatment for an
enlarged prostate.

Some facts about prostate enlargement:

    * The likelihood of developing an enlarged prostate increases with age.
    * BPH is so common that it has been said all men will have an enlarged prostate if they live long enough.
    * A small amount of prostate enlargement is present in many men over age 40. More than 90% of men over age 80 have the condition.
    * No risk factors have been identified, other than having normally-functioning testicles. 

## Symptoms

Less than half of all men with BPH have symptoms of the disease. Symptoms may
include:

    * Dribbling at the end of urinating
    * Inability to urinate (urinary retention)
    * Incomplete emptying of your bladder
    * Incontinence
    * Needing to urinate 2 or more times per night
    * Pain with urination or bloody urine (these may indicate infection)
    * Slowed or delayed start of the urinary stream
    * Straining to urinate
    * Strong and sudden urge to urinate
    * Weak urine stream 

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will ask questions about your medical history. A
digital rectal exam will also be done to feel the prostate gland. Other tests
may include:

    * Urine flow rate
    * Post-void residual urine test to see how much urine is left in your bladder after you urinate
    * Pressure-flow studies to measure the pressure in the bladder as you urinate
    * Urinalysis to check for blood or infection
    * Urine culture to check for infection
    * Prostate-specific antigen (PSA) blood test to screen for prostate cancer
    * Cystoscopy
    * Blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and creatinine tests 

You may be asked to fill out a form to rate how bad your symptoms are and how
much they affect your daily life. Your provider can use this score to judge if
your condition is getting worse over time.

## Treatment

The treatment you choose will be based on how bad your symptoms are and how
much they bother you. Your provider will also take into account other medical
problems you may have.

Treatment options include "watchful waiting," lifestyle changes, medicines, or
surgery.

If you are over 60, you are more likely to have symptoms. But many men with an
enlarged prostate have only minor symptoms. Self-care steps are often enough
to make you feel better.

If you have BPH, you should have a yearly exam to monitor your symptoms and
see if you need changes in treatment.

SELF-CARE

For mild symptoms:

    * Urinate when you first get the urge. Also, go to the bathroom on a timed schedule, even if you don't feel a need to urinate.
    * Avoid alcohol and caffeine, especially after dinner.
    * DO NOT drink a lot of fluid all at once. Spread out fluids during the day. Avoid drinking fluids within 2 hours of bedtime.
    * Try NOT to take over-the-counter cold and sinus medicines that contain decongestants or antihistamines. These drugs can increase BPH symptoms.
    * Keep warm and exercise regularly. Cold weather and lack of physical activity may worsen symptoms.
    * Reduce stress. Nervousness and tension can lead to more frequent urination. 

MEDICINES

Alpha-1 blockers are a class of drugs that are also used to treat high blood
pressure. These medicines relax the muscles of the bladder neck and prostate.
This allows easier urination. Most people who take alpha-1 blockers notice
improvement in their symptoms, usually within 3 to 7 daysÂ after starting the
medicine.

Finasteride and dutasteride lower levels of hormones produced by the prostate.
These drugs also reduce the size of the gland, increase urine flow rate, and
decrease symptoms of BPH. You may need to take these medicines for 3 to 6
months before you notice symptoms getting better. Possible side effects
include decreased sex drive and impotence.

Antibiotics may be prescribed to treat chronic prostatitis (inflammation of
the prostate), which may occur with BPH. BPH symptoms improve in some men
after a course of antibiotics.

Watch out for drugs that may make your symptoms worse:

SAW PALMETTO

Many herbs have been tried for treating an enlarged prostate. Many men use saw
palmetto to ease symptoms. Some studies have shown that it may help with
symptoms, but results are mixed, and more research is needed. If you use saw
palmetto and think it works, ask your doctor if you should still take it.

SURGERY

Prostate surgery may be recommended if you have:

    * Incontinence
    * Recurrent blood in the urine
    * Inability to fully empty the bladder (urinary retention)
    * Recurrent urinary tract infections
    * Decreasing kidney function
    * Bladder stones
    * Bothersome symptoms not responding to medicines 

The choice of which surgical procedure is recommended is most often based on
the severity of your symptoms and the size and shape of your prostate gland.
Most men who have prostate surgery have improvement in urine flow rates and
symptoms.

Transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP): This is the most common and
most proven surgical treatment for BPH. TURP is performed by inserting a scope
through the penis and removing the prostate piece by piece.

Simple prostatectomy: It is a procedure to remove the inside part of the
prostate gland. It is done through a surgical cut in your lower belly. This
treatment is most often done on men who have very large prostate glands.

Other less-invasive procedures use heat or a laser to destroy prostate tissue.
Another less-invasive procedure works by "tacking" the prostate open without
removing or destroying tissues. None have been proven to be better than TURP.
People who receive these procedures are more likely to need surgery again
after 5 or 10 years. However, these procedures may be a choice for:

    * Younger men (many of the less-invasive procedures carry a lower risk for impotence and incontinence than TURP, although the risk with TURP is not very high)
    * Older people
    * People with severe medical conditions, including uncontrolled diabetes, cirrhosis, alcoholism, psychosis, and serious lung, kidney, or heart disease
    * Men who are taking blood-thinning drugs
    * Men who are otherwise at an increased surgical risk 

## Support Groups

Some men may find it helpful to take part in a BPH support group.

## Possible Complications

Men who have had BPH for long time with slowly worsening symptoms may develop:

    * Sudden inability to urinate
    * Urinary tract infections
    * Urinary stones
    * Damage to the kidneys
    * Blood in the urine 

BPH may come back over time, even after having surgery.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider right away if you have:

    * Less urine than usual
    * Fever or chills
    * Back, side, or abdominal pain
    * Blood or pus in your urine 

Also call if:

    * Your bladder does not feel completely empty after you urinate.
    * You take medicines that may cause urinary problems, such as diuretics, antihistamines, antidepressants, or sedatives. DO NOT stop or change your medicines without talking to your provider.
    * You have tried self-care steps for 2 months and symptoms have not improved. 

## Alternative Names

BPH; Benign prostatic hyperplasia (hypertrophy); Prostate - enlarged

## Patient Instructions

    * Enlarged prostate - what to ask your doctor 
    * Prostate resection - minimally invasive - discharge
    * Transurethral resection of the prostate - discharge 

## Images

    * ![Male reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1113t.jpg)Male reproductive anatomy
    * ![BPH](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18005t.jpg)BPH
    * ![Prostatectomy - series - Normal anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10053t.jpg)Prostatectomy - Series
    * ![Transurethral Resection of the Prostate \(TURP\) - Series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10058t.jpg)Transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP) - Series

## References

Andersson KE, Wein AJ. Pharmacologic management of lower urinary tract storage
and emptying failure. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds.
_Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 79.

Foster HE, Dahm P, Kohler TS, Lerner LB, et al. Surgical management of lower
urinary tract symptoms attributed to benign prostatic hyperplasia: AUA
Guideline Amendment 2019. _J Urol_. 2019; ;202(3):592-598. PMID: 31059668
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31059668.

McNicholas TA, Speakman MJ, Kirby RS. Evaluation and nonsurgical management of
benign prostatic hyperplasia. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA
eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap
104.

National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases website.
Prostate enlargement (benign prostatic hyperplasia). www.niddk.nih.gov/health-
information/urologic-diseases/prostate-problems/prostate-enlargement-benign-
prostatic-hyperplasia. Updated September 2014. Accessed August 7, 2019.

Sandhu JS, Breyer B, Comiter C, et al. Incontinence after prostate treatment:
AUA/SUFU Guideline. _J Urol_. 2019;202(2):369-378. PMID: 31059663
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31059663.

Terrone C, Billia M. Medical aspects of the treatment of LUTS/BPH: combination
therapies. In: Morgia G, ed. _Lower Urinary Tract Symptoms and Benign
Prostatic Hyperplasia_. Cambridge, MA: Elsevier Academic Press; 2018:chap 11.

## Review Date 7/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Enlarged Prostate
\(BPH\)](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EnlargedProstate\(BPH\)_thumb.jpg)Enlarged
Prostate (BPH) _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

