Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000304.htm    
                                Description: The prostate gland often grows larger as men get older. This is called benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH). An enlarged prostate may cause you problems with urinating.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Enlarged prostate - what to ask your doctor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000304.htm

# Enlarged prostate - what to ask your doctor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The prostate gland often grows larger as men get older. This is called benign
prostatic hyperplasia (BPH). An enlarged prostate may cause you problems with
urinating.

Below are some questions you may want to ask your health care provider about
your prostate.

## Questions

What is the prostate gland?

Where is it in my body?

What does the prostate gland do?

What causes the prostate gland to enlarge?

Do many other men have prostate problems?

How do I know my problem is not prostate cancer?

What are the symptoms of an enlarged prostate?

Will these symptoms get worse? How quickly?

Can any of these symptoms be harmful or dangerous?

What tests should I have?

How can I treat my symptoms at home?

Is it OK to drink alcohol? How about coffee and other drinks with caffeine?

How much fluid should I drink during the day?

Are there medicines that may make my symptoms worse?

Are there exercises that can help with my symptoms?

What can I do so that I do not wake up at night as much?

I have heard there are different herbs and supplements that may improve my
symptoms? Is this true? Are these herbs or supplements safe to use?

What medicines may help?

Are there different types? How are they different?

Will they make my symptoms go away completely?

Does their benefit wear off over time?

What side effects should I look for?

What should I do if I am having a hard time urinating?

 **Questions to ask when thinking about having surgery for an enlarged
prostate:**

    * Have I tried all the different safe treatments and medicines that may help?
    * How quickly will my symptoms get worse if I do not have surgery?
    * What are the serious medical problems that can happen if I do not have surgery?
    * If I do not have surgery now, does that make having surgery later less effective or more dangerous? 

What are the different types of surgery that I can have?

    * Are there surgeries that are better for my situation?
    * Will I ever need another surgery for a large prostate? Does one kind of surgery help for longer?
    * What are the side effects of the different surgeries? Is one surgery more likely to cause problems with erections? With urinary incontinence? With ejaculation?
    * Do I need to stay in the hospital after the surgeries? How long will it take to recover?
    * Is there anything I can do before surgery to make recovery easier? 

## Alternative Names

What to ask your doctor about enlarged prostate; Benign prostatic hypertrophy
- what to ask your doctor; BPH - what to ask your doctor

## References

McNicholas TA, Speakman MJ, Kirby RS. Evaluation and nonsurgical management of
benign prostatic hyperplasia. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA,
eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap
104.

Moul JW, Whitley BM. Benign prostatic hyperplasia. In: Kellerman RD, Rakel DP,
eds. _Conn's Current Therapy 2019_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier 2019:1088-1091.

Terrone C, Billia M. Medical aspects of the treatment of LUTS/BPH: combination
therapies. In: Morgia G, ed. _Lower Urinary Tract Symptoms and Benign
Prostatic Hyperplasia_. Cambridge, MA: Elsevier Academic Press; 2018:chap 11.

## Read More

    * Enlarged prostate
    * Prostate resection - minimally invasive
    * Simple prostatectomy
    * Transurethral resection of the prostate

## Patient Instructions

    * Prostate resection - minimally invasive - discharge
    * Transurethral resection of the prostate - discharge 

## Review Date 4/2/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Enlarged Prostate (BPH)

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

