Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000596.htm    
                                Description: Plague is a severe bacterial infection that may cause death.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Plague

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000596.htm

# Plague

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Plague is a severe bacterial infection that may cause death.

## Causes

Plague is caused by the bacteria _Yersinia pestis._ Rodents, such as rats,
carry the disease. It is spread by their fleas.

People can get plague when they are bitten by a flea that carries the plague
bacteria from an infected rodent. In rare cases, people get the disease when
handling an infected animal.

Plague lung infection is called pneumonic plague. It can be spread from person
to person. When someone with pneumonic plague coughs, tiny droplets carrying
the bacteria move through the air. Anyone who breathes in these particles may
catch the disease. An epidemic can be started this way.

In the Middle Ages in Europe, massive plague epidemics killed millions of
people. Plague has not been eliminated. It can still be found in Africa, Asia,
and South America.

Today, plague is rare in the United States. But it has been known to occur in
parts of California, Arizona, Colorado, and New Mexico.

The three most common forms of plague are:

    * Bubonic plague, an infection of the lymph nodes
    * Pneumonic plague, an infection of the lungs
    * Septicemic plague, an infection of the blood 

The time between being infected and developing symptoms is typically 2 to 8
days. But the time can be as short as 1 day for pneumonic plague.

Risk factors for plague include a recent flea bite and exposure to rodents,
especially rabbits, squirrels, or prairie dogs, or scratches or bites from
infected domestic cats.

## Symptoms

Bubonic plague symptoms appear suddenly, usually 2Â to 5 days after exposure
to the bacteria. Symptoms include:

    * Fever and chills
    * General ill feeling (malaise)
    * Headache
    * Muscle pain
    * Seizures
    * Smooth, painful lymph gland swelling called a bubo that is commonly found in the groin, but may occur in the armpits or neck, most often at the site of the infection (bite or scratch); pain may start before the swelling appears 

Pneumonic plague symptoms appear suddenly, typically 1 to 4 days after
exposure. They include:

    * Severe cough
    * Difficulty breathing and pain in the chest when breathing deeply
    * Fever and chills
    * Headache
    * Frothy, bloody sputum

Septicemic plague may cause death even before severe symptoms occur. Symptoms
can include:

    * Abdominal pain
    * Bleeding due to blood clotting problems
    * Diarrhea
    * Fever
    * Nausea, vomiting 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical examination and ask about
your symptoms.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Blood culture
    * Culture of lymph node aspirate (fluid taken from an affected lymph node or bubo)
    * Sputum culture
    * Chest x-ray

## Treatment

People with the plague need to be treated right away. If treatment is not
received within 24 hours of when the first symptoms occur, the risk for death
increases.

Antibiotics such as streptomycin, gentamicin, doxycycline, or ciprofloxacin
are used to treat plague. Oxygen, intravenous fluids, and respiratory support
are usually also needed.

People with pneumonic plague must be kept away from caregivers and other
patients. People who have had contact with anyone infected by pneumonic plague
should be watched carefully and given antibiotics as a preventive measure.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Without treatment, about 50% of people with bubonic plague die. Almost
everyone with septicemic or pneumonic plague dies if not treated right away.
Treatment reduces the death rate to 50%.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you develop plague symptoms after exposure to fleas or
rodents. Contact your provider if you live in or have visited an area where
plague occurs.

## Prevention

Rat control and watching for the disease in the wild rodent population are the
main measures used to control the risk for epidemics. The plague vaccine is no
longer used in the United States.

## Alternative Names

Bubonic plague; Pneumonic plague; Septicemic plague

## Images

    * ![Flea](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1239t.jpg)Flea
    * ![Flea bite - close-up](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2051t.jpg)Flea bite - close-up
    * ![Antibodies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9069t.jpg)Antibodies
    * ![Bacteria](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9095t.jpg)Bacteria

## References

Gage KL, Mead PS. Plague and other yersinia infections. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 312.

Mead PS. Yersinia species (including plague). In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser
MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 231.

## Review Date 5/10/2019

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Plague](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Plague2_thumb.jpg)Plague _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

