Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000214.htm    
                                Description: Hepatic ischemia is a condition in which the liver does not get enough blood or oxygen. This causes injury to liver cells.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hepatic ischemia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000214.htm

# Hepatic ischemia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hepatic ischemia is a condition in which the liver does not get enough blood
or oxygen. This causes injury to liver cells.

## Causes

Low blood pressure from any condition can lead to hepatic ischemia. Such
conditions may include:

    * Abnormal heart rhythms
    * Dehydration
    * Heart failure
    * Infection, especially sepsis
    * Severe bleeding

Other causes may include:

    * Blood clots in the main artery to the liver (hepatic artery) after a liver transplant
    * Swelling of blood vessels leading to reduced blood flow (vasculitis)
    * Burns
    * Heat stroke

## Symptoms

The person may have altered mental status due to reduced blood flow to the
brain. Other symptoms may include:

    * Loss of appetite
    * Feeling of general discomfort
    * Jaundice

Damage to the liver cells most often does not cause symptoms until it affects
liver function.

Blood clots in the liver's main artery may cause abdominal pain.

## Exams and Tests

The following tests will be done:

    * Blood tests to check liver function (AST and ALT). These readings can be very high with ischemia.
    * Doppler ultrasound of the blood vessels of liver.

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the cause. Low blood pressure and blood clots must be
treated right away.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

People generally recover if the illness causing hepatic ischemia can be
treated. Death from liver failure due to hepatic ischemia is very rare.

## Possible Complications

Liver failure is a rare, but fatal complication.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your health care provider right away if you have persistent weakness
or symptoms of shock or dehydration.

## Prevention

Quickly treating the causes of low blood pressure may prevent hepatic
ischemia.

## Alternative Names

Ischemic hepatitis; Shock liver

## Images

    * ![Liver blood supply](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8847t.jpg)Liver blood supply

## References

Hauser SC. Vascular diseases of the gastrointestinal tract. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 143.

Trivedi HD. Ischemic hepatitis. In: Ferri FF, ed. _Ferri's Clinical Advisor
2018_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018: 726-726.e1.

Valla DC. Vascular diseases of the liver. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt
LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 85.

## Review Date 4/2/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Liver Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LiverDisease_thumb.jpg)Liver
Diseases _Read more_

![Low Blood
Pressure](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LowBloodPressure_thumb.jpg)Low Blood
Pressure _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

