Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007278.htm    
                                Description: Low blood pressure occurs when blood pressure is much lower than normal. This means the heart, brain, and other parts of the body do not get enough blood. Normal blood pressure is mostly between 90/60    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Low blood pressure

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007278.htm

# Low blood pressure

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Low blood pressure occurs when blood pressure is much lower than normal. This
means the heart, brain, and other parts of the body do not get enough blood.
Normal blood pressure is mostly between 90/60 mmHg and 120/80 mmHg.

The medical name for low blood pressure is hypotension.

## Causes

Blood pressure varies from one person to another. A drop as little as 20 mmHg,
can cause problems for some people. There are different types and causes of
low blood pressure.

Severe hypotension can be caused by sudden loss of blood (shock), severe
infection, heart attack, or severe allergic reaction (anaphylaxis).

Orthostatic hypotension is caused by a sudden change in body position. This
occurs most often when you shift from lying down to standing. This type of low
blood pressure usually lasts only a few seconds or minutes. If this type of
low blood pressure occurs after eating, it is called postprandial orthostatic
hypotension. This type most often affects older adults, those with high blood
pressure, and people with Parkinson disease.

Neurally mediated hypotension (NMH) most often affects young adults and
children. It can occur when a person has been standing for a long time.
Children usually outgrow this type of hypotension.

Certain medicines and substances can lead to low blood pressure, including:

    * Alcohol
    * Anti-anxiety medicines
    * Certain antidepressants
    * Diuretics
    * Heart medicines, including those used to treat high blood pressure and coronary heart disease
    * Medicines used for surgery
    * Painkillers 

Other causes of low blood pressure include:

    * Nerve damage from diabetes
    * Changes in heart rhythm (arrhythmias)
    * Not drinking enough fluids (dehydration)
    * Heart failure

## Symptoms

Symptoms of low blood pressure may include:

    * Blurry vision
    * Confusion
    * Dizziness
    * Fainting (syncope)
    * Lightheadedness
    * Nausea or vomiting
    * Sleepiness
    * Weakness 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will examine you to determine the cause of your low
blood pressure. Your vital signs (temperature, pulse, rate of breathing, and
blood pressure) will be checked frequently. You may need to stay in the
hospital for a while.

The provider will ask questions, including:

    * What is your normal blood pressure?
    * What medicines do you take?
    * Have you been eating and drinking normally?
    * Have you had any recent illness, accident, or injury?
    * What other symptoms do you have?
    * Did you faint or become less alert?
    * Do you feel dizzy or lightheaded when standing or sitting after lying down? 

The following tests may be done:

    * Basic metabolic panel
    * Blood cultures to check for infection
    * Complete blood count (CBC), including blood differential
    * Electrocardiogram (ECG)
    * Urinalysis
    * X-ray of the abdomen
    * X-ray of the chest

## Treatment

Lower than normal blood pressure in a healthy person that does not cause any
symptoms often does not need treatment. Otherwise, treatment depends on the
cause of your low blood pressure and your symptoms.

When you have symptoms from a drop in blood pressure, sit or lie down right
away. Then raise your feet above heart level.

Severe hypotension caused by shock is a medical emergency. You may be given:

    * Blood through a needle (IV)
    * Medicines to increase blood pressure and improve heart strength
    * Other medicines, such as antibiotics 

Treatments for low blood pressure after standing up too quickly include:

    * If medicines are the cause, your provider may change the dosage or switch you to a different drug. DO NOT stop taking any medicines before talking to your provider.
    * Your provider may suggest drinking more fluids to treat dehydration.
    * Wearing compression stockings can help keep blood from collecting in the legs. This keeps more blood in the upper body. 

People with NMH should avoid triggers, such as standing for a long period of
time. Other treatments include drinking fluids and increasing salt in your
diet. Talk to your provider before trying these measures. In severe cases,
medicines may be prescribed.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Low blood pressure can usually be treated with success.

## Possible Complications

Falls due to low blood pressure in older adults can lead to a broken hip or
spine fracture. These injuries can reduce a person's health and ability to
move about.

Sudden severe drops in your blood pressure starves your body of oxygen. This
can lead to damage of the heart, brain, and other organs. This type of low
blood pressure can be life threatening if not treated right away.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

If low blood pressure causes a person to pass out (become unconscious), seek
treatment right away. Or, call the local emergency number such as 911. If the
person is not breathing or has no pulse, begin CPR.

Call your provider right away if you have any of the following symptoms:

    * Black or maroon stools
    * Chest pain
    * Dizziness, lightheadedness
    * Fainting
    * Fever higher than 101Â°F (38.3Â°C)
    * Irregular heartbeat
    * Shortness of breath

## Prevention

Your provider may recommend certain steps to prevent or reduce your symptoms
including:

    * Drinking more fluids
    * Getting up slowly after sitting or lying down
    * Not drinking alcohol
    * Not standing for a long time (if you have NMH)
    * Using compression stockings so blood does not collect in the legs 

## Alternative Names

Hypotension; Blood pressure - low; Postprandial hypotension; Orthostatic
hypotension; Neurally mediated hypotension; NMH

## References

Calkins HG, Zipes DP. Hypotension and syncope. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow
RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A
Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 43.

Cheshire WP. Autonomic disorders and their management. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 418.

## Review Date 2/7/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Low Blood
Pressure](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LowBloodPressure_thumb.jpg)Low Blood
Pressure _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

