Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000045.htm    
                                Description: Lymphedema is the buildup of lymph in your body. Lymph is a fluid surrounding tissues. Lymph moves through vessels in the lymph system and into the bloodstream. The lymph system is a major part of the    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Lymphedema - self-care

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000045.htm

# Lymphedema - self-care

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Lymphedema is the buildup of lymph in your body. Lymph is a fluid surrounding
tissues. Lymph moves through vessels in the lymph system and into the
bloodstream. The lymph system is a major part of the immune system.

## What is Lymphedema

When lymph builds up, it can cause an arm, leg, or other area of your body to
swell and become painful. The disorder can be lifelong.

## What to Expect

Lymphedema may start 6 to 8 weeks after surgery or after radiation treatment
for cancer.

It can also start very slowly after your cancer treatment is over. You may not
notice symptoms for 18 to 24 months after treatment. Sometimes it can take
years to develop.

## Ways to Help Relieve Swelling

Use your arm that has lymphedema for everyday activities, such as combing your
hair, bathing, dressing, and eating. Rest this arm above the level of your
heart 2 or 3 times a day while you are lying down.

    * Stay lying down for 45 minutes.
    * Rest your arm on pillows to keep it raised.
    * Open and close your hand 15 to 25 times while you are lying down. 

## Taking Care of Your Skin

Every day, clean the skin of your arm or leg that has lymphedema. Use lotion
to keep your skin moist. Check your skin every day for any changes.

Protect your skin from injuries, even small ones:

    * Use only an electric razor for shaving underarms or legs.
    * Wear gardening gloves and cooking gloves.
    * Wear gloves when doing work around the house.
    * Use a thimble when you sew.
    * Be careful in the sun. Use sunscreen with an SPF of 30 or higher.
    * Use insect repellent.
    * Avoid very hot or cold things, such as ice packs or heating pads.
    * Stay out of hot tubs and saunas.
    * Have blood draws, intravenous therapy (IVs), and shots in the non-effected arm or in another part of your body.
    * Don't wear tight clothing or wrap anything tight on your arm or leg that has lymphedema.

Take care of your feet:

    * Cut your toenails straight across. If needed, see a podiatrist to prevent ingrown nails and infections.
    * Keep your feet covered when you are outdoors. DO NOT walk barefoot.
    * Keep your feet clean and dry. Wear cotton socks.

Don't put too much pressure on your arm or leg with lymphedema:

    * Don't sit in the same position for more than 30 minutes.
    * Don't cross your legs while sitting.
    * Wear loose jewelry. Wear clothes that do not have tight waistbands or cuffs.
    * Where a bra that is supportive, but not too tight.
    * If you carry a handbag, carry it with the unaffected arm.
    * Don't use elastic support bandages or stockings with tight bands.

Taking care of cuts and scratches:

    * Wash wounds gently with soap and water.
    * Apply an antibiotic cream or ointment to the area.
    * Cover wounds with dry gauze or bandages, but don't wrap them tightly.
    * Call your health care provider right away if you have an infection. Signs of infection include rash, red blotches, swelling, heat, pain, or fever.

Taking care of burns:

    * Place a cold pack or run cold water on a burn for 15 minutes. Then wash gently with soap and water.
    * Put a clean, dry bandage over the burn.
    * Call your provider right away if you have an infection.

Living with lymphedema can be hard. Ask your provider about visiting a
physical therapist who can teach you about:

    * Ways to prevent lymphedema
    * How diet and exercise affect lymphedema
    * How to use massage techniques to decrease lymphedema

If you are prescribed a compression sleeve:

    * Wear the sleeve during the day. Remove it at night. Make sure you get the right size.
    * Wear the sleeve when traveling by air. If possible, keep your arm above the level of your heart during long flights.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your doctor if you have any of these symptoms:

    * New rashes or skin breaks that do not heal
    * Feelings of tightness in your arm or leg
    * Rings or shoes that become tighter
    * Weakness in your arm or leg
    * Pain, aching, or heaviness in the arm or leg
    * Swelling that lasts longer than 1 to 2 weeks
    * Signs of infection, such as redness, swelling, or fever of 100.5Â°F (38Â°C) or higher

## Alternative Names

Breast cancer - self-care for lymphedema; Mastectomy - self-care for
lymphedema

## References

Merchant SJ, Chen SL. Prevention and management of lymphedema after breast
cancer treatment. _Breast J_. 2015;21(3):276-284. PMID: 25772311
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25772311.

National Cancer Institute website. Lymphedema (PDQ) - health professional
version. www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/side-
effects/lymphedema/lymphedema-hp-pdq. Updated July 17, 2015. Accessed February
27, 2018.

## Read More

    * Breast cancer
    * Breast lump removal
    * Mastectomy

## Patient Instructions

    * Breast radiation - discharge
    * Chest radiation - discharge
    * Surgical wound care - open

## Review Date 1/31/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Breast Cancer
    * Lymphedema

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

