Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000690.htm    
                                Description: The BRCA1 and BRCA2 gene test is a blood test that can tell you if you have a higher risk of getting cancer. The name BRCA comes from the first two letters of breast cancer.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

BRCA1 and BRCA2 gene testing

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000690.htm

# BRCA1 and BRCA2 gene testing

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The BRCA1 and BRCA2 gene test is a blood test that can tell you if you have a
higher risk of getting cancer. The name BRCA comes from the first two letters
of **br** east **ca** ncer.

## What is the BRCA Gene Mutation?

BRCA1 and BRCA2 are genes that suppress malignant tumors (cancer) in humans.
When these genes change (become mutated) they do not suppress tumors like they
should. So people with BRCA1 and BRCA2 gene mutations are at a higher risk of
getting cancer.

Women with this mutation are at higher risk of getting breast cancer or
ovarian cancer. Mutations may also increase a woman's risk of developing:

    * Cervical cancer
    * Uterine cancer
    * Colon cancer
    * Pancreatic cancer
    * Gallbladder cancer or bile duct cancer
    * Stomach cancer
    * Melanoma 

Men with this mutation are also more likely to get cancer. Mutations may
increase a man's risk of developing:

    * Breast cancer
    * Pancreatic cancer
    * Testicular cancer
    * Prostate cancer 

Only about 5% of breast cancers and 10 to 15% of ovarian cancers are
associated with BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations.

## Who Should Think About Being Tested?

Before being tested, you should speak with a genetic counselor to learn more
about the tests, and the risks and benefits of testing.

If you have a family member with breast cancer or ovarian cancer, find out if
that person has been tested for the BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutation. If that person
does have the mutation, you might consider getting tested, too.

Someone in your family may have the BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutation if:

    * Two or more close relatives (parents, siblings, children) have breast cancer before the age of 50
    * A male relative has breast cancer
    * A female relative has both breast and ovarian cancer
    * Two relatives have ovarian cancer
    * You are of Eastern European (Ashkenazi) Jewish ancestry, and a close relative has breast or ovarian cancer 

You have a very low chance of having the BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutation if:

    * You do not have a relative that had breast cancer before the age of 50
    * You do not have a relative that had ovarian cancer
    * You do not have a relative that had male breast cancer 

## How is the Test Done?

Before the test is done, speak to a genetic counselor to decide whether to
have the test.

    * Bring with you your medical history, family's medical history, and questions.
    * You might want to bring someone with you to listen and take notes. It is hard to hear and remember everything. 

If you decide to be tested, your blood sample is sent to a lab that
specializes in genetic testing. That lab will test your blood for the BRCA1
and BRCA2 mutations. It can take weeks or months to get the test results.

When the test results are back, the genetic counselor will explain the results
and what they mean for you.

## What Does a Positive Test Result Mean?

A positive test result means you have inherited the BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutation.

    * This does not mean you have cancer, or even that you will get cancer. This means you are at a higher risk of getting cancer.
    * This also means you can or could have passed this mutation on to your children. Each time you have a child there is a 1 in 2 chance your child will get the mutation you have. 

When you know you are at higher risk of developing cancer, you can decide if
you will do anything differently.

    * You may want to be screened for cancer more often, so it can be caught early and treated.
    * There may be medicine you can take that could reduce your chance of getting cancer.
    * You may choose to have surgery to remove your breasts or ovaries. 

None of these precautions will guarantee you will not get cancer.

## What Does a Negative Test Result Mean?

If your test result for the BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations is negative, the genetic
counselor will tell you what this means. Your family history will help the
genetic counselor understand a negative test result.

A negative test result does not mean you will not get cancer. It may mean you
have the same risk of getting cancer as people who do not have this mutation.

Be sure to discuss all results of your tests, even negative results, with your
genetic counselor.

## Alternative Names

Breast cancer - BRCA1 and BRCA2; Ovarian cancer - BRCA1 and BRCA2

## References

Moyer VA; U.S. Preventive Services Task Force. Risk assessment, genetic
counseling, and genetic testing for BRCA-related cancer in women: U.S.
Preventive Services Task Force recommendation statement. _Ann Intern Med_.
2014;160(4):271-281. PMID: 24366376 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24366376.

National Cancer Institute website. BRCA mutations: cancer risk and genetic
testing. www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/causes-prevention/genetics/brca-fact-
sheet. Updated January 30, 2018. Accessed August 5, 2019.

Nussbaum RL, McInnes RR, Willard HF. Cancer genetics and genomics. In:
Nussbaum RL, McInnes RR, Willard HF, eds. _Thompson and Thompson Genetics in
Medicine_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 15.

## Review Date 7/8/2019

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Breast Cancer
    * Genetic Testing
    * Ovarian Cancer

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

