Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003155.htm    
                                Description: A breast lump is swelling, growth, or mass in the breast.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Breast lump

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003155.htm

# Breast lump

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A breast lump is swelling, growth, or mass in the breast.

Breast lumps in both men and women raise concern for breast cancer, even
though most lumps are not cancer.

## Considerations

Both males and females of all ages have normal breast tissue. This tissue
responds to hormone changes. Because of this, lumps can come and go.

Breast lumps may appear at any age:

    * Both male and female infants may have breast lumps from their mother's estrogen when they are born. The lump will most often go away on its own as the estrogen clears from the baby's body.
    * Young girls often develop "breast buds," which appear just before the beginning of puberty. These bumps may be tender. They are common around age 9, but may happen as early as age 6.
    * Teenage boys may develop breast enlargement and lumps because of hormone changes in mid-puberty. Although this may be upsetting to boys, the lumps or growth almost always go away on their own over a period of months. 

## Causes

Lumps in a woman are most often either fibroadenomas or cysts, or just normal
variations in breast tissue known as fibrocystic changes.

Fibrocystic changes are painful, lumpy breasts. This is a benign condition
that does not increase your risk for breast cancer. Symptoms are most often
worse right before your menstrual period, and then improve after your period
starts.

Fibroadenomas are noncancerous lumps that feel rubbery.

    * They move easily inside the breast tissue and are usually not tender. They occur most often during the reproductive years.
    * These lumps do not have cancer or become cancerous except in rare cases.
    * A health care provider may sometimes suspect a lump is a fibroadenoma based on an exam. Also, an ultrasound and a mammogram can often provide information to determine if a lump looks like a fibroadenoma.
    * The only way to be sure, however, is to have a needle biopsy or remove the whole lump. 

Cysts are fluid-filled sacs that often feel like soft grapes. These can
sometimes be tender, often just before your menstrual period. Ultrasound can
determine if a lump is a cyst. It can also reveal whether it is simple,
complicated, or complex cyst.

    * Simple cysts are just sacs filled with fluid. They do not need to be removed and may go away on their own. If a simple cyst is growing or causing pain, it can be aspirated.
    * A complicated cyst has a little bit of debris in the fluid and can either be watched with ultrasound or the fluid can be drained.
    * A complex cyst looks more worrisome on ultrasound. A needle biopsy should be done in these cases. Depending on what the needle biopsy shows, the cyst may be monitored with ultrasound exams or removed surgically. 

Other causes of breast lumps include:

    * Breast cancer.
    * Injury. Blood may collect and feel like a lump called a hematoma if your breast gets badly bruised. These lumps tend to get better on their own in a few days or weeks. If they do not improve, your provider may have to drain the blood.
    * Lipoma. This is a collection of fatty tissue.
    * Milk cysts (sacs filled with milk). These cysts can occur with breastfeeding.
    * Breast abscess. These typically occur if you are breastfeeding or have recently given birth, but can also occur in women who are not breastfeeding. 

## Home Care

See your provider if you have any new lumps or breast changes. Ask about your
risk factors for breast cancer, and screening and prevention for breast
cancer.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * The skin on your breast appears dimpled or wrinkled (like the peel of an orange).
    * You find a new breast lump during your monthly self-exam.
    * You have bruising on your breast but did not experience any injury.
    * You have nipple discharge, especially if it is bloody, clear like water, or pinkish (blood-tinged).
    * Your nipple is inverted (turned inward) but normally is not inverted. 

Also call if:

    * You are a woman, age 20 or older, and want guidance on how to perform a breast self-exam.
    * You are a woman over age 40 and have not had a mammogram in the past year. 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will get a complete history from you. You will be asked about
your factors that may increase the risk for breast cancer. The provider will
perform a thorough breast exam. If you don't know how to perform a breast
self-exam, ask your provider to teach you the proper method.

You may be asked medical history questions such as:

    * When and how did you first notice the lump?
    * Do you have other symptoms such as pain, nipple discharge, or fever?
    * Where is the lump located?
    * Do you do breast self-exams, and is this lump a recent change?
    * Have you had any type of injury to your breast?
    * Are you taking any hormones, medicines, or supplements?

Steps your provider may take next include:

    * Order a mammogram to look for cancer, or a breast ultrasound to see if the lump is solid or a cyst.
    * Use a needle to draw fluid out of a cyst. The fluid is usually discarded and does not need to be examined under a microscope.
    * Order a needle biopsy which is often done by a radiologist.

How a breast lump is treated depends on the cause.

    * Solid breast lumps are usually biopsied with a needle by the radiologist. Depending upon the situation, they might be removed with surgery. They can also be monitored by over time by the provider.
    * Cysts can be drained in the provider's office. If the lump disappears after it is drained, you do not need further treatment. If the lump does not disappear or comes back, you might need to be rechecked with exam and imaging.
    * Breast infections are treated with antibiotics. Sometimes a breast abscess needs to be drained with a needle or surgically drained.
    * If you are diagnosed with breast cancer, you will discuss your options carefully and thoroughly with your provider.

## Alternative Names

Breast mass; Breast nodule; Breast tumor

## Images

    * ![Female Breast](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1075t.jpg)Female breast
    * ![Breast lumps](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17029t.jpg)Breast lumps
    * ![Fibrocystic breast disease](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17185t.jpg)Fibrocystic breast disease
    * ![Fibroadenoma](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19597t.jpg)Fibroadenoma
    * ![Breast lump removal - series - Normal anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/7033t.jpg)Breast lump removal - series
    * ![Causes of Breast Lumps](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17081t.jpg)Causes of breast lumps

## References

Hunt KK, Mittendorf EA. Diseases of the breast. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp
RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 34.

Liu J, Jacobs JK. The management of benign breast disease. In: Cameron JL,
Cameron AM, eds. _Current Surgical Therapy_. 12th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:657-659.

Swartz MH. The breast. In: Swartz MH, ed. Textbook of Physical Diagnosis:
_History and Examination_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2014:chap 13.

Wolff AC, Domchek SM, Davidson NE, Sacchini V, McCormick B. Cancer of the
breast. In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Doroshow JH, Kastan MB, Tepper JE,
eds. _Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2014:chap 91.

## Review Date 11/26/2017

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Breast Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BreastCancer2_thumb.jpg)Breast
Cancer _Read more_

![Breast
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BreastDiseases_thumb.jpg)Breast
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

