Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000056.htm    
                                Description: You    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Breast radiation - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000056.htm

# Breast radiation - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You're having radiation treatment for breast cancer. With radiation, your body
goes through some changes. Knowing what to expect will help you be prepared
for these changes.

## What to Expect at Home

You may notice changes in the way your breast looks or feels (if you are
getting radiation after a lumpectomy). These changes include:

    * Soreness or swelling in the area being treated. This should go away around 4 to 6 weeks after treatment is over.
    * The skin on your breast may become more sensitive or numb.
    * Skin and breast tissue may be thicker or firmer. The skin may be slightly darker.
    * After therapy, your breast may feel larger or smaller. Many women will not have any change in size.
    * You may notice these changes for up to 12 months after therapy starts.

## Skin Care

Take care of the treatment area:

    * Wash gently with lukewarm water only. DO NOT scrub. Pat your skin dry.
    * DO not use heavily scented or detergent soaps.
    * Do not use lotions, ointments, makeup, perfumed powders, or other perfumed products on this area unless recommended by your health care provider.
    * Keep the area that is being treated out of the direct sun.
    * Do not scratch or rub your skin.

Tell your provider if you have any breaks, cracks, peeling, or opening in your
skin. DO NOT put heating pads or ice bags directly on the treatment area. Wear
loose-fitting breathable clothing.

Wear a loose-fitting bra with no underwire. Ask your provider about wearing
your breast prosthesis, if you have one.

## Self-care

You need to eat enough protein and calories to keep your weight up while you
are having radiation.

Tips to make eating easier:

    * Choose foods that you like.
    * Ask your provider about liquid food supplements. These can help you get enough calories. If pills are hard to swallow, try crushing them and mixing them with some ice cream or another soft food. 

Watch for these signs of swelling (edema) in your arm.

    * You have a feeling of tightness in your arm.
    * Rings on your fingers get tighter.
    * Your arm feels weak.
    * You have pain, aching, or heaviness in your arm.
    * Your arm is red, swollen, or there are signs of infection. 

Ask your provider about physical exercises you can do to keep your arm moving
freely.

Most people who get radiation treatment begin to feel tired after a few days.
If you feel tired:

    * Do not try to do too much in a day. You will probably not be able to do everything you are used to doing.
    * Try to get more sleep at night. Rest during the day when you can.
    * Take a few weeks off work, or work less. 

## Alternative Names

Radiation - breast - discharge

## References

National Cancer Institute website. Radiation therapy and you: support for
people with cancer. www.cancer.gov/publications/patient-
education/radiationttherapy.pdf. Updated October 2016. Accessed November 12,
2018.

Zeman EM, Schreiber EC, Tepper JE. Basics of radiation therapy. In:
Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Doroshow JH, Kastan MB, Tepper JE, eds.
_Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2014:chap 27.

## Read More

    * Breast cancer
    * Breast lump removal
    * Mastectomy

## Patient Instructions

    * Drinking water safely during cancer treatment
    * Dry mouth during cancer treatment
    * Eating extra calories when sick - adults
    * Lymphedema - self-care
    * Radiation therapy - questions to ask your doctor
    * Safe eating during cancer treatment
    * When you have diarrhea
    * When you have nausea and vomiting

## Review Date 10/14/2018

Updated by: David Herold, MD, Radiation Oncologist in Jupiter, FL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Breast Cancer
    * Radiation Therapy

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

