Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007691.htm    
                                Description:  Whole breast radiation therapy (WBRT) uses high-powered x-rays to kill breast cancer cells.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Whole breast radiation therapy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007691.htm

# Whole breast radiation therapy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Whole breast radiation therapy (WBRT) uses high-powered x-rays to kill breast
cancer cells.

Cancer cells multiply faster than normal cells in the body. Because radiation
is most harmful to quickly growing cells, radiation therapy damages cancer
cells more than normal cells. This prevents the cancer cells from growing and
dividing, and leads to cell death.  
  

## Description

This type of radiation is delivered by an x-ray machine that targets radiation
either to the whole breast, or the chest wall (if done after mastectomy).
Sometimes, radiation will also target the lymph nodes in the armpit or neck
area or under the breast bone.

You may receive radiation treatment either in a hospital or in a private
outpatient radiation center. You will go home after each treatment. A typical
course of treatment is given 5 days a week for 3 to 6 weeks. Each treatment is
scheduled the same time each day for your convenience.

Before you have any radiation treatment, you will meet with the radiation
oncologist. This is a doctor who specializes in radiation therapy.

There are several ways the doctor and therapists may place little marks on
your skin that can help make sure the radiation is pointed at the cancer but
not at healthy tissue.

    * Some centers use ink tattoos. These marks are permanent but are most often smaller than a mole. These cannot be washed off and you can bathe and shower normally. After treatment, if you want the marks removed laser or surgery can be used.
    * Some centers use marks that can be washed off. You may be asked not to wash the area during treatment and the marks may need to be touched up before each treatment session. 

During each treatment session:

    * You will lie on a special table, either on your back or your stomach.
    * The technicians will position you so the radiation targets the treatment area.
    * Sometimes alignment x-rays or scans are taken before treatment to make sure you are lined up in the right treatment position.
    * Some centers use a machine that delivers radiation at certain points of your breathing cycle. This can help limit radiation to the heart and lungs. You may be asked to hold your breath while the radiation is being delivered. You mayÂ have a mouthpiece to help regulate your breathing.
    * Most often, you will receive radiation treatment for between 1 and 5 minutes. Each day you will be in and out of the treatment center in less than 20 minutes on average. 

## Why the Procedure is Performed

After surgery, cancer cells may remain in the breast tissue or lymph nodes.
Radiation can help kill the remaining cancer cells. When radiation is
delivered after surgery is performed, it is called adjuvant (additional)
treatment.

WBRT may be given:

    * For ductal carcinoma (DCIS)
    * For stage I or II breast cancer, after lumpectomy or partial mastectomy (breast-conserving surgery)
    * For more advanced breast cancer, sometimes even after full mastectomy
    * For cancer that has spread to local lymph nodes (in the neck or armpit)
    * For widespread breast cancer, as a palliative treatment to relieve symptoms

## Before the Procedure

Tell your health care provider what medicines you are taking.

Wear loose-fitting clothes to the treatments.

You are not radioactive after radiation treatments. It is safe to be around
others, including babies or children. As soon as the machine stops, there is
no more radiation in the room.

## After the Procedure

Radiation therapy, like any cancer therapy, can also damage or kill healthy
cells. The death of healthy cells can lead to side effects. These side effects
depend on the dose of radiation and how often you have the therapy.

Side effects can develop early during treatment (within a few weeks) and be
short-lived, or they may be more lasting long-term side effects. Late side
effects can happen months or years later.

Early side effects 1 to 3 weeks after your first treatment may include:

    * You may develop some breast swelling, tenderness, and sensitivity.
    * Your skin over the treated area may turn red or darker in color, peel, or itch (much like a sunburn).

Most of these changes should go away about 4 to 6 weeks after the radiation
treatment is over.

Your provider will explain care at home during and after radiation treatment.

Late (long-term) side effects may include:

    * Decreased breast size
    * Increased firmness of breast
    * Skin redness and discoloration
    * Swelling in the arm (lymphedema) in women who have had nearby lymph nodes removed
    * In rare cases, rib fractures, heart problems (more likely for left breast radiation)
    * Development of a second cancer in the treatment area (the breast, ribs, or muscles of the chest or arm)

## Outlook (Prognosis)

WBRT following breast-conserving surgery reduces the risk of cancer coming
back and of death from breast cancer.

## Alternative Names

Breast cancer - radiation therapy; Carcinoma of the breast - radiation
therapy; External beam radiation - breast; Intensity-modulated radiation
therapy - breast cancer; Radiation - whole breast; WBRT

## References

Alluri P, Jagsi R. Postmastectomy radiotherapy. In: Bland KI, Copeland EM,
Klimberg S, eds. _The Breast: Comprehensive Management of Benign and Malignant
Diseases_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 49.

National Cancer Institute website. Breast cancer treatment (Adult) (PDQ) -
health professional version. www.cancer.gov/types/breast/hp/breast-treatment-
pdq. Updated November 12, 2019. Accessed November 19, 2019.

National Cancer Institute website. Radiation therapy and you: support for
people who have cancer. www.cancer.gov/publications/patient-
education/radiation-therapy-and-you. Updated October 2016. Accessed August 2,
2018.

## Review Date 7/9/2018

Updated by: David Herold, MD, Radiation Oncologist in West Palm Beach, FL.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team. Editorial update 10/16/2019. Editorial update
11/19/2019.

![Breast Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BreastCancer2_thumb.jpg)Breast
Cancer _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

