Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/anatomyvideos/000084.htm    
                                Description: The lymphatic system is often referred to as the body    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Videos & Tools ->

Health Videos ->

Lymphatics and the breast

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/anatomyvideos/000084.htm

# Lymphatics and the breast

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Play health video: //medlineplus.gov/ency/videos/mov/200103_eng.mp4

What's this?Play health video with audio description:
//medlineplus.gov/ency/videos/mov/200103_eng_ad.mp4

## Overview

The lymphatic system is often referred to as the body's "secondary circulatory
system." The lymphatic system collects excess fluid in the body's tissues and
returns it to the bloodstream. Lymph formation occurs at the microscopic
level. During the exchange of fluid and molecules between the blood
circulation and body tissues, blood capillaries may not reabsorb all of the
fluid. Surrounding lymphatic capillaries absorb the excess fluid. The fluid is
then filtered and transported back by the lymphatic system into large veins
near the heart. The lymphatic system can play a very worrisome role in the
spread of breast cancer. Components of the lymphatic system called lymph nodes
are distributed at specific locations throughout the body. There is also an
extensive network of lymphatic vessels in every woman's breast tissue, which
is important in regulating the local fluid balance as well as in filtering out
harmful substances. The lymph vessels in the breast may inadvertently supply
cancerous cells with access to a highway along which the cancerous cells can
move to other parts of the body. This process is called metastasis and may
result in the formation of a secondary cancer mass in a different location of
the body. Regular breast self examinations can help to detect tumors earlier
in their growth, hopefully before they spread quickly or metastasize.

## Review Date 6/28/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Breast Cancer

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

