Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007433.htm    
                                Description: A breast biopsy is the removal of breast tissue to examine it for signs of breast cancer or other disorders.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Breast biopsy - stereotactic

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007433.htm

# Breast biopsy - stereotactic

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A breast biopsy is the removal of breast tissue to examine it for signs of
breast cancer or other disorders.

There are several types of breast biopsies, including stereotactic,
ultrasound-guided, MRI-guided and excisional breast biopsy. This article
focuses on stereotactic breast biopsy, which uses mammography to help pinpoint
the spot in the breast that needs to be removed.

## How the Test is Performed

You are asked to undress from the waist up. During the biopsy, you are awake.

You are most likely asked to lie facing down on the biopsy table. The breast
that is being biopsied hangs through an opening in the table. The table is
raised and the doctor performs the biopsy from underneath. In some cases,
stereotactic breast biopsy is done while you sit in an upright position.

The biopsy is done in the following way:

    * The health care provider first cleans the area on your breast. Numbing medicine is injected.
    * The breast is pressed down to hold it in position during the procedure. You need to hold still while the biopsy is being done.
    * The doctor makes a very small cut on your breast over the area that needs to be biopsied.
    * Using a special machine, a needle or sheath is guided to the exact location of the abnormal area. Several samples of breast tissue are taken.
    * A small metal clip may be placed into the breast in the biopsy area. The clip marks it for surgical biopsy later, if needed. 

The biopsy itself is done using one of the following:

    * Hollow needle (called a core needle)
    * Vacuum-powered device
    * Both a needle and vacuum-powered device 

The procedure usually takes about 1 hour. This includes the time it takes for
the x-rays. The actual biopsy takes only several minutes.

After the tissue sample has been taken, the needle is removed. Ice and
pressure are applied to the site to stop any bleeding. A bandage will be
applied to absorb any fluid. Stitches are not needed. Adhesive strips may be
placed over any wound, if needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

The provider will ask about your medical history. A breast exam may be done.

If you take medicines (including aspirin, supplements, or herbs), ask your
doctor whether you need to stop taking these before the biopsy.

Tell your doctor if you may be pregnant.

DO NOT use lotion, perfume, powder, or deodorant underneath your arms or on
your breasts.

## How the Test will Feel

When the numbing medicine is injected, it may sting a bit.

During the procedure, you may feel slight discomfort or light pressure.

Lying on your stomach for up to 1 hour may be uncomfortable. Using cushions or
pillows may help. Some people are given a pill to help relax them before the
procedure.

After the test, the breast may be sore and tender for several days. Follow
instructions on what activities you can do, how to care for your breast, and
what medicines you can take for pain.

## Why the Test is Performed

Stereotactic breast biopsy is used when a small growth or an area of
calcifications is seen on a mammogram, but cannot be seen using an ultrasound
of the breast.

The tissue samples are sent to a pathologist to be examined.

## Normal Results

A normal result means there is no sign of cancer.

Your provider will let you know when you need a follow-up mammogram or other
tests.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

If the biopsy shows benign breast tissue without cancer, you will likely not
need surgery.

Sometimes the biopsy results show abnormal signs that are not cancer. In this
case, a surgical biopsy might be recommended to remove the whole abnormal area
for examination.

Biopsy results may show conditions such as:

    * Atypical ductal hyperplasia
    * Atypical lobular hyperplasia
    * Intraductal papilloma
    * Flat epithelial atypia
    * Radial scar
    * Lobular carcinoma-in-situ 

Abnormal results may mean that you have breast cancer. Two main types of
breast cancer may be found:

    * Ductal carcinoma starts in the tubes (ducts) that move milk from the breast to the nipple. Most breast cancers are of this type.
    * Lobular carcinoma starts in parts of the breast called lobules, which produce milk. 

Depending on the biopsy results, you may need further surgery or treatment.

Your provider will discuss the meaning of the biopsy results with you.

## Risks

There is a slight chance of infection at the injection or surgical cut site.

Bruising is common, but excessive bleeding is rare.

## Alternative Names

Biopsy - breast - stereotactic; Core needle breast biopsy - stereotactic;
Stereotactic breast biopsy; Abnormal mammogram - stereotactic breast biopsy;
Breast cancer - stereotactic breast biopsy

## References

American College of Radiology website. ACR practice parameter for the
performance of stereotactic-guided breast interventional procedures.
www.acr.org/-/media/ACR/Files/Practice-Parameters/stereo-breast.pdf. Updated
2016. Accessed April 3, 2019.

Henry NL, Shah PD, Haider I, Freer PE, Jagsi R, Sabel MS. Cancer of the
breast. In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Kastan MB, Doroshow JH, Tepper JE,
eds. _Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2020:chap 88.

Parker C, Umphrey H, Bland K. The role of stereotactic breast biopsy in the
management of breast disease. In: Cameron JL, Cameron AM, eds. _Current
Surgical Therapy_. 12th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:666-671.

## Review Date 3/12/2019

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Biopsy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Biopsy_thumb.jpg)Biopsy _Read more_

![Breast Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BreastCancer2_thumb.jpg)Breast
Cancer _Read more_

![Breast
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BreastDiseases_thumb.jpg)Breast
Diseases _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

