Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001993.htm    
                                Description: A breast self-exam is a check-up a woman does at home to look for changes or problems in the breast tissue. Many women feel that doing this is important to their health.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Breast self-exam

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001993.htm

# Breast self-exam

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A breast self-exam is a check-up a woman does at home to look for changes or
problems in the breast tissue. Many women feel that doing this is important to
their health.

However, experts do not agree about the benefits of breast self-exams in
finding breast cancer or saving lives. Talk to your health care provider about
whether breast self-exams are right for you.

## Information

The best time to do a monthly self-breast exam is about 3 to 5 days after your
period starts. Do it at the same time every month. Your breasts are not as
tender or lumpy at this time in your monthly cycle.

If you have gone through menopause, do your exam on the same day every month.

Begin by lying on your back. It is easier to examine all breast tissue if you
are lying down.

    * Place your right hand behind your head. With the middle fingers of your left hand, gently yet firmly press down using small motions to examine the entire right breast.
    * Next, sit or stand. Feel your armpit, because breast tissue goes into that area.
    * Gently squeeze the nipple, checking for discharge. Repeat the process on the left breast.
    * Use one of the patterns shown in the diagram to make sure that you are covering all of the breast tissue. 
![Breast self-exam](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/17022.jpg)

Next, stand in front of a mirror with your arms by your side.

    * Look at your breasts directly and in the mirror. Look for changes in skin texture, such as dimpling, puckering, indentations, or skin that looks like an orange peel.
    * Also note the shape and outline of each breast.
    * Check to see if the nipple turns inward. 

Do the same with your arms raised above your head.

Your goal is get used to the feel of your breasts. This will help you to find
anything new or different. If you do, call your provider right away.

## Alternative Names

Self-examination of the breast; BSE; Breast cancer - BSE; Breast cancer
screening - self exam

## Images

    * ![Female Breast](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1075t.jpg)Female breast
    * ![Breast self-exam](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17019t.jpg)Breast self-exam
    * ![Breast self-exam](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17021t.jpg)Breast self-exam
    * ![Breast self-exam](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17022t.jpg)Breast self-exam

## References

Mallory MA, Golshan M. Examination techniques: roles of the physician and
patient in evaluating breast disease. In: Bland KI, Copeland EM, Klimberg VS,
Gradishar WJ, eds. _The Breast: Comprehensive Management of Benign and
Malignant Diseases_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 25.

Sandadi S, Rock DT, Orr JW, Valea FA. Breast disease: detection, management,
and surveillance of breast disease. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM,
Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 15.

US Preventive Services Task Force website. Breast cancer: screening.
www.uspreventiveservicestaskforce.org/Page/Document/UpdateSummaryFinal/breast-
cancer-screening1. Updated January 2016. Accessed February 25, 2020.

## Review Date 1/27/2020

Updated by: LaQuita Martinez, MD, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology,
Emory Johns Creek Hospital, Alpharetta, GA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD,
MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Breast Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BreastCancer2_thumb.jpg)Breast
Cancer _Read more_

![Breast
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BreastDiseases_thumb.jpg)Breast
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

