Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007693.htm    
                                Description:  Partial breast radiation therapy uses high-powered x-rays to kill breast cancer cells. It is also called accelerated partial breast radiation (APBI). A standard course of external beam breast treatment    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Partial breast radiation therapy - external beam

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007693.htm

# Partial breast radiation therapy - external beam

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Partial breast radiation therapy uses high-powered x-rays to kill breast
cancer cells. It is also called accelerated partial breast radiation (APBI). A
standard course of external beam breast treatment takes 3 to 6 weeks. APBI can
be accomplished in as little as 1 to 2 weeks. APBI targets a high dose of
radiation on the area where the breast tumor was removed. It avoids exposing
the surrounding tissue to radiation. There are three common approaches for
APBI:

    * External beam, the topic of this article
    * Brachytherapy (inserting radioactive sources into the breast)
    * Intraoperative radiation (delivering radiation at the time of surgery in the operating room)

## Description

Radiation therapy is usually delivered on an outpatient basis, except for
intraoperative radiation therapy.

Two common techniques are used for partial breast external beam radiation
treatment:

    * Conformal external beam radiation
    * Intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) 

Before you have any radiation treatment, you will meet with the radiation
oncologist. This person is a doctor who specializes in radiation therapy.

    * The doctor will put small marks put on your skin. These marks ensure that you are correctly positioned during your treatments.
    * These marks will either be ink marks or a permanent tattoo. Do not wash ink marks off until your treatment is finished. They will fade over time. 

The treatment is usually given 5 days a week for anywhere from 2 to 6 weeks.
It may sometimes be given twice a day (usually with 4 to 6 hours between
sessions).

    * During each treatment session you will lie on a special table, either on your back or your stomach.
    * The technicians will position you so the radiation targets the treatment area.
    * You may be asked to hold your breath while the radiation is being delivered. This helps limit how much radiation your heart receives.
    * Most often, you will receive radiation treatment for between 1 and 5 minutes. You will be in and out of the cancer center within 15 to 20 minutes on average. 

Rest assured, you are not radioactive after these radiation treatments. It is
safe to be around others, including babies and children.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

APBI is used to prevent breast cancer from coming back. When radiation therapy
is given after breast-conserving surgery, it is called adjuvant (additional)
radiation therapy.

APBI may be given after lumpectomy or partial mastectomy (called breast-
conserving surgery) for:

    * Ductal carcinoma (DCIS)
    * Stage I or II breast cancer  
  

## Before the Procedure

Tell your health care provider what medicines you are taking.

Wear loose fitting clothes to the treatments.  
  

## After the Procedure

Radiation therapy can also damage or kill healthy cells. The death of healthy
cells can lead to side effects. These side effects depend on the dose of
radiation and how often you have the therapy.Â Radiation can have short-term
(acute) or long-term (later) side effects.

Short-term side effects can begin within days or weeks after treatment begins.
Most side effects of this type go away within 4 to 6 weeks after treatment
ends. Most common short-term effects include:

    * Breast redness, tenderness, sensitivity
    * Breast swelling or edema
    * Breast infection (rare)

Long-term side effects may begin months or years after treatment and may
include:

    * Decreased breast size
    * Increased firmness of breast
    * Skin redness and discoloration
    * In rare cases, rib fractures, heart problems (more likely for left breast radiation), or lung inflammation (called pneumonitis) or the development of second cancer years later
    * Arm swelling (edema) -- more common if lymph nodes were surgically removed and if the armpit area was treated with radiation

Your providers will explain care at home during and after radiation treatment.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Partial breast radiation following breast conservation therapy reduces the
risk of cancer coming back, and possibly even death from breast cancer.

## Alternative Names

Carcinoma of the breast - partial radiation therapy; Partial external beam
radiation - breast; Intensity-modulated radiation therapyÂ - breast cancer;
IMRTÂ - breast cancer WBRT; Adjuvant partial breast - IMRT; APBI - IMRT;
Accelerated partial breast irradiation - IMRT; Conformal external beam
radiation - breast

## References

National Cancer Institute website. Breast cancer treatment (adult) (PDQ) -
health professional version. www.cancer.gov/types/breast/hp/breast-treatment-
pdq. Updated November 12, 2019. Accessed November 19, 2019.

National Cancer Institute website. Radiation therapy and you: support for
people who have cancer. www.cancer.gov/publications/patient-
education/radiationttherapy.pdf. Updated October 2016. Accessed August 2,
2018.

Shah C, Harris EE, Holmes D, Vicini FA. Partial breast irradiation:
accelerated and intraoperative. In: Bland KI, Copeland EM, Klimberg S, eds.
_The Breast: Comprehensive Management of Benign and Malignant Diseases_. 5th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 51.

## Review Date 7/9/2018

Updated by: David Herold, MD, Radiation Oncologist in West Palm Beach, FL.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team. Editorial update 10/15/2019. Editorial update
11/19/2019.

![Breast Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BreastCancer2_thumb.jpg)Breast
Cancer _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

