Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/tp53-genetic-test/    
                                Description: A TP53 genetic test looks for a mutation in the gene TP53 (tumor protein 53). If you have the mutation, you are at higher risk for getting cancer. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

TP53 Genetic Test

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/tp53-genetic-test/

# TP53 Genetic Test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a TP53 genetic test?

A TP53 genetic test looks for a change, known as a mutation, in a gene called
TP53 (tumor protein 53). Genes are the basic units of heredity passed down
from your mother and father.

TP53 is a gene that helps stop the growth of tumors. It's known as a tumor
suppressor. A tumor suppressor gene works like the brakes on a car. It puts
the "brakes" on cells, so they don't divide too quickly. If you have a TP53
mutation, the gene may not be able to control the growth of your cells.
Uncontrolled cell growth can lead to cancer.

A TP53 mutation can be inherited from your parents, or acquired later in life
from the environment or from a mistake that happens in your body during cell
division.

    * An inherited TP53 mutation is known as Li-Fraumeni syndrome.
    * Li-Fraumeni syndrome is a rare genetic condition that can increase your risk of certain types of cancers.
    * These cancers include breast cancer, bone cancer, leukemia, and soft tissue cancers, also called sarcomas.

Acquired (also known as somatic) TP53 mutations are much more common. These
mutations have been found in about half of all cases of cancer, and in many
different types of cancer.

Other names: TP53 mutation analysis, TP53 full gene analysis, TP53 somatic
mutation

## What is it used for?

The test is used to look for a TP53 mutation. It is not a routine test. It is
usually given to people based on family history, symptoms, or previous
diagnosis of cancer.

## Why do I need a TP53 genetic test?

You may need a TP53 test if:

    * You've been diagnosed with a bone or soft tissue cancer before the age of 45
    * You've been diagnosed with, pre-menopausal breast cancer, a brain tumor, leukemia, or lung cancer before the age of 46
    * You've had one or more tumors before the age of 46
    * One or more of your family members have been diagnosed with Li-Fraumeni syndrome and/or have had cancer before the age of 45

These are signs you may have an inherited mutation of the TP53 gene.

If you've been diagnosed with cancer and don't have a family history of the
disease, your health care provider may order this test to see if a TP53
mutation may be causing your cancer. Knowing whether you have the mutation can
help your provider plan treatment and predict the likely outcome of your
disease.

## What happens during a TP53 genetic test?

A TP53 test is usually done on blood or bone marrow.

 **If you are getting a blood test,** a health care professional will take a
blood sample from a vein in your arm, using a small needle. After the needle
is inserted, a small amount of blood will be collected into a test tube or
vial. You may feel a little sting when the needle goes in or out. This usually
takes less than five minutes.

 **If you are getting a bone marrow test,** your procedure may include the
following steps:

    * You'll lie down on your side or your stomach, depending on which bone will be used for testing. Most bone marrow tests are taken from the hip bone.
    * Your body will be covered with cloth, so that only the area around the testing site is showing.
    * The site will be cleaned with an antiseptic.
    * You will get an injection of a numbing solution. It may sting.
    * Once the area is numb, the health care provider will take the sample. You will need to lie very still during the tests.
    * The health care provider will use a special tool that twists into the bone to take out a sample of bone marrow tissue. You may feel some pressure on the site while the sample is being taken.
    * After the test, the health care provider will cover the site with a bandage.
    * Plan to have someone drive you home, since you may be given a sedative before the tests, which may make you drowsy.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You usually don't need any special preparations for a blood or bone marrow
test.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

After a bone marrow test, you may feel stiff or sore at the injection site.
This usually goes away in a few days. Your health care provider may recommend
or prescribe a pain reliever to help.

## What do the results mean?

If you've been diagnosed with Li-Fraumeni syndrome, it **does not** mean you
have cancer, but your risk is higher than most people. But if you have the
mutation, you can take steps to reduce your risk, such as:

    * More frequent cancer screenings. Cancer is more treatable when found in the early stages.
    * Making lifestyle changes, such as getting more exercise and eating a healthier diet
    * Chemoprevention, the taking of certain medicines, vitamins, or other substances to reduce the risk or delay the development of cancer.
    * Removing "at-risk" tissue

These steps will vary depending on your health history and family background.

If you have cancer and your results indicate an acquired TP53 mutation (a
mutation was found, but you have no family history of cancer or Li-Fraumeni
syndrome), your provider can use the information to help predict how your
disease will develop and guide your treatment.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about a TP53 test?

If you've been diagnosed with or suspect you have Li-Fraumeni syndrome, it may
help to speak to a genetic counselor. A genetic counselor is a specially
trained professional in genetics and genetic testing. If you haven't yet been
tested, the counselor can help you understand the risks and benefits of
testing. If you have been tested, the counselor can help you understand the
results and direct you to support services and other resources.

## References

    1. American Cancer Society [Internet]. Atlanta: American Cancer Society Inc.; c2018. Oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes [updated 2014 Jun 25; cited 2018 Jun 29]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.org/cancer/cancer-causes/genetics/genes-and-cancer/oncogenes-tumor-suppressor-genes.html
    2. Cancer.net [Internet]. Alexandria (VA): American Society of Clinical Oncology; c2005â2018. Li-Fraumeni Syndrome; 2017 Oct [cited 2018 Jun 29]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.net/cancer-types/li-fraumeni-syndrome
    3. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Cancer Prevention and Control: Screening Tests [updated 2018 May 2; cited 2018 Jun 29]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/cancer/dcpc/prevention/screening.htm
    4. Li-Fraumeni Syndrome: LFSA Association [Internet]. Holliston (MA): Li-Fraumeni Syndrome Association; c2018. What is LFS?: Li-Fraumeni Syndrome Association [cited 2018 Jun 29]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.lfsassociation.org/what-is-lfs
    5. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2018. Bone marrow biopsy and aspiration: Overview; 2018 Jan 12 [cited 2018 Jun 29]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/tests-procedures/bone-marrow-biopsy/about/pac-20393117
    6. Mayo Clinic: Mayo Medical Laboratories [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1995â2018. Test ID: P53CA: Hematologic Neoplasms, TP53 Somatic Mutation, DNA Sequencing Exons 4-9: Clinical and Interpretive [cited 2018 Jun 29]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayomedicallaboratories.com/test-catalog/Clinical+and+Interpretive/62402
    7. Mayo Clinic: Mayo Medical Laboratories [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1995â2018. Test ID: TP53Z: TP53 Gene, Full Gene Analysis: Clinical and Interpretive [cited 2018 Jun 29]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayomedicallaboratories.com/test-catalog/Clinical+and+Interpretive/35523
    8. MD Anderson Cancer Center [Internet]. The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center; c2018. TP53 Mutation Analysis [cited 2018 Jun 29]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mdanderson.org/research/research-resources/core-facilities/molecular-diagnostics-lab/services/tp53-mutation-analysis.html
    9. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co., Inc.; c2018. Bone Marrow Examination [cited 2018 Jun 29]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: http://www.merckmanuals.com/home/blood-disorders/symptoms-and-diagnosis-of-blood-disorders/bone-marrow-examination
    10. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms: chemoprevention [cited 2018 Jul 11]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/publications/dictionaries/cancer-terms/search?contains=false&q=chemoprevention
    11. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Genetic Testing for Hereditary Cancer Syndromes [cited 2018 Jun 29]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/causes-prevention/genetics/genetic-testing-fact-sheet
    12. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms: gene [cited 2018 Jun 29]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/publications/dictionaries/cancer-terms/search?contains=false&q=gene
    13. NeoGenomics [Internet]. Fort Myers (FL): NeoGenomics Laboratories; c2018. TP53 Mutation Analysis [cited 2018 Jun 29]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://neogenomics.com/test-menu/tp53-mutation-analysis
    14. NIH U.S. National Library of Medicine: Genetics Home Reference [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; TP53 gene; 2018 Jun 26 [cited 2018 Jun 29]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ghr.nlm.nih.gov/gene/TP53
    15. NIH U.S. National Library of Medicine: Genetics Home Reference [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What is a gene mutation and how do mutations occur?; 2018 Jun 26 [cited 2018 Jun 29]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ghr.nlm.nih.gov/primer/mutationsanddisorders/genemutation
    16. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2018. Health Encyclopedia: Breast Cancer: Genetic Testing [cited 2018 Jun 29]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=34&contentid=16421-1
    17. Quest Diagnostics [Internet]. Quest Diagnostics; c2000â2017. Test Center: TP53 Somatic Mutation, Prognostic [cited 2018 Jun 29]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.questdiagnostics.com/testcenter/TestDetail.action?ntc=16515
    18. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2017. Health Information: Bone Marrow Aspiration and Biopsy: How It Is Done; [updated 2017 May 3; cited 2018 Jul 17]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/biopsy-bone-marrow/hw200221.html#hw200245

## Related Health Topics

    * Bone Cancer
    * Breast Cancer
    * Cancer
    * Genetic Disorders
    * Genetic Testing
    * Health Screening
    * Leukemia
    * Soft Tissue Sarcoma

## Related Lab Test Information

    * BRCA Test
    * CA-125 Blood Test (Ovarian Cancer)
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results
    * Karyotype Genetic Test
    * PTEN Genetic Test
    * Tumor Marker Tests

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 26 February 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

