Link: https://medlineplus.gov/diabetesmedicines.html    
                                Description: Diabetes medicines can help to control your Diabetes. The right medicines depend on factors such as the type of Diabetes you have.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Diabetes Medicines

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/diabetesmedicines.html

#  Diabetes Medicines

On this page

### Basics

  * Summary
  * Start Here

### Learn More

  * Related Issues
  * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

  * No links available

### Research

  * Statistics and Research
  * Clinical Trials
  * Journal Articles

### Resources

  * Find an Expert

### For You

  * Women
  * Patient Handouts

## Summary

### What is diabetes?

Diabetes is a disease in which your blood glucose, or blood sugar, levels are
too high. Glucose comes from the foods you eat. Insulin is a hormone that
helps the glucose get into your cells to give them energy. If you have type 1
diabetes, your body does not make insulin. With type 2 diabetes, the more
common type, your body does not make or use insulin well. Without enough
insulin, too much glucose stays in your blood.

### What are the treatments for diabetes?

Treatments for diabetes depend on the type. Common treatments include a
diabetic meal plan, regular physical activity, and medicines. Some less common
treatments are weight loss surgery for either type and an artificial pancreas
or pancreatic islet transplantation for some people with type 1 diabetes.

### Who needs diabetes medicines?

People with type 1 diabetes need to take insulin to control their blood sugar.

Some people with type 2 diabetes can control their blood sugar with healthy
food choices and physical activity. But for others, a diabetic meal plan and
physical activity are not enough. They need to take diabetes medicines.

The kind of medicine you take depends on your type of diabetes, daily
schedule, medicine costs, and other health conditions.

### What are the types of medicines for type 1 diabetes?

If you have type 1 diabetes, you must take insulin because your body no longer
makes it. Different types of insulin start to work at different speeds, and
the effects of each last a different length of time. You may need to use more
than one type.

You can take insulin several different ways. The most common are with a needle
and syringe, an insulin pen, or an insulin pump. If you use a needle and
syringe or a pen, you have to take insulin several times during the day,
including with meals. An insulin pump gives you small, steady doses throughout
the day. Less common ways to take insulin include Inhalers, injection ports,
and jet injectors.

In rare cases, taking insulin alone might not be enough to manage your blood
sugar. Then you would need to take another diabetes medicine.

### What are the types of medicines for type 2 diabetes?

There are several different medicines for type 2 diabetes. Each works in a
different way. Many diabetes medicines are pills. There are also medicines
that you inject under your skin, such as insulin.

Over time, you may need more than one diabetes medicine to manage your blood
sugar. You might add another diabetes medicine or switch to a combination
medicine. A combination medicine is a pill than contains more than one type of
diabetes medicine. Some people with type 2 diabetes take both pills and
insulin.

Even if you don't usually take insulin, you may need it at special times, such
as during pregnancy or if you are in the hospital.

### What else should I know about taking medicines for diabetes?

Even if you take medicines for diabetes, you still need to eat a healthy diet
and do regular physical activity. These will help you manage your diabetes.

It is important to make sure that you understand your diabetes treatment plan.
Talk to your provider about

  * What your target blood sugar level is
  * What to do if your blood sugar gets too low or too high
  * Whether your diabetes medicines will affect other medicines you take
  * Any side effects you have from the diabetes medicines

You should not change or stop your diabetes medicines on your own. Talk to
your provider first.

Some people who take diabetes medicines may need medicines for high blood
pressure, high cholesterol, or other conditions. This may help you avoid or
control any complications of diabetes.

NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases

## Start Here

  * Diabetes Medicines ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) Also in Spanish
  * Insulin Basics (American Diabetes Association)
  * Insulin Therapy (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
  * Taking Medication (American Association of Diabetes Educators) \- PDF
  * Women and Diabetes - Diabetes Medicines ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (Food and Drug Administration)

## Related Issues

  * Beware of Illegally Marketed Diabetes Treatments (Food and Drug Administration) Also in Spanish
  * Byetta, Victoza, Bydureon: Diabetes Drugs and Weight Loss (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
  * Insulin and Weight Gain: Keep the Pounds Off (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
  * Insulin Pumps (American Diabetes Association)
  * Intensive Insulin Therapy: Tight Blood Sugar Control (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
  * Managing Your Medicines (American Diabetes Association) \- PDF

## Specifics

  * Diabetes and Insulin (Hormone Health Network)
  * DPP-4 Inhibitors for Type 2 Diabetes (Hormone Health Network) Also in Spanish
  * GLP-1 Receptor Agonists (Hormone Health Network) Also in Spanish
  * Insulin ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (Food and Drug Administration)
  * Insulin Secretagogues (Hormone Health Network) Also in Spanish
  * Oral Medication (American Diabetes Association)
  * Oral Medications: What Are My Options? (American Diabetes Association)
  * Type 2 Diabetes and TZDs (Thiazolidinediones) (Hormone Health Network) \- PDF Also in Spanish

## Statistics and Research

  * Two Diabetes Medications Don't Slow Progression of Type 2 Diabetes in Youth ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)

## Clinical Trials

  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Hypoglycemic Agents ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Insulin ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

  * Article: Attenuation of diabetic retinopathy and neuropathy by resveratrol: Review on its...
  * Article: Misfolding of vasopressin receptors: biased agonist pharmacochaperones as potential therapeutics.
  * Article: NASH (nonalcoholic steatohepatitis), diabetes, and macrovascular disease: multiple chronic conditions and...
  * Diabetes Medicines -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

  * American Diabetes Association
  * National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)
  * NIDDK Information Clearinghouses and Health Information Center ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)

## Women

  * Women and Diabetes ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (Food and Drug Administration)

## Patient Handouts

  * Diabetes - insulin therapy (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Diabetes - low blood sugar - self-care (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Giving an insulin injection (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Insulin pumps (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Oral hypoglycemics overdose (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Diabetes Medicines](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DiabeticMedicine.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

  * Diabetes - insulin therapy
  * Diabetes - low blood sugar - self-care
  * Giving an insulin injection
  * Insulin pumps
  * Lactic acidosis
  * Oral hypoglycemics overdose

## Related Health Topics

  * Blood Sugar
  * Diabetes
  * Diabetes in Children and Teens
  * Diabetes Type 1
  * Diabetes Type 2

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Diabetes Medicines is the
National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Diabetes
Medicines_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 13 February 2020 Topic last reviewed: 3 January 2017

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

