Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003379.htm    
                                Description: Breast ultrasound is a test that uses sound waves to examine the breasts.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Breast ultrasound

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003379.htm

# Breast ultrasound

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Breast ultrasound is a test that uses sound waves to examine the breasts.

## How the Test is Performed

You will be asked to undress from the waist up. You will be given a gown to
wear.

During the test, you will lie on your back on an examining table.

Your health care provider will place a gel on the skin of your breast. A
handheld device, called a transducer, is moved over the breast area. You may
be asked to raise your arms above your head and turn to the left or right.

The device sends sound waves to the breast tissue. The sound waves help create
a picture that can be seen on a computer screen on the ultrasound machine.

The number of people involved in the test will be limited to protect your
privacy.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You may want to wear a two-piece outfit, so you do not have to completely
undress.

On the day of your test, DO NOT use any lotion or powder on your breasts. DO
NOT use deodorant under your arms. Remove jewelry from your neck and chest
area.

## How the Test will Feel

This test usually does not cause any discomfort, although the gel may feel
cool.

## Why the Test is Performed

Breast ultrasound is usually ordered when more information is needed after
other tests are done or as a stand-alone test. These tests may include
mammogram or breast MRI.

Your provider may order this test if you have:

    * A breast lump found during a breast exam
    * An abnormal mammogram
    * Clear or bloody nipple discharge

A breast ultrasound can:

    * Help tell the difference between a solid mass or a cyst
    * Help look for a growth if you have clear or bloody fluid coming from your nipple
    * Guide a needle during a breast biopsy

## Normal Results

A normal result means the breast tissue appears normal.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Ultrasound can help show noncancerous growths such as:

    * Cysts, which are, fluid-filled sacs
    * Fibroadenomas, which are, noncancerous solid growths
    * Lipomas, which are, noncancerous fatty lumps that can occur anywhere in the body, including the breasts 

Breast cancers can also be seen with ultrasound.

Follow-up tests to determine whether treatment may be needed include:

    * Breast lump removal (excisional breast biopsy)
    * Open (surgical) breast biopsy
    * Stereotactic breast biopsy (needle biopsy performed using a machine like a mammogram)
    * Ultrasound-guided breast biopsy (needle biopsy performed using ultrasound)

## Risks

There are no risks associated with breast ultrasound. There is no radiation
exposure.

## Alternative Names

Ultrasonography of the breast; Sonogram of the breast; Breast lump -
ultrasound

## Images

    * ![Female Breast](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1075t.jpg)Female breast

## References

Bassett LW, Lee-Felker S. Breast imaging screening and diagnosis. In: Bland
KI, Copeland EM, Klimberg VS, Gradishar WJ, eds. _The Breast: Comprehensive
Management of Benign and Malignant Diseases_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 26.

Hacker NF, Friedlander ML. Breast disease: a gynecologic perspective. In:
Hacker NF, Gambone JC, Hobel CJ, eds. _Hacker and Moore's Essentials of
Obstetrics and Gynecology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 30.

Siu AL; US Preventive Services Task Force. Screening for breast cancer: US
Preventive Services Task Force recommendation statement. _Ann Intern Med_.
2016;164(4):279-296. PMID: 26757170 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26757170.

## Review Date 1/30/2018

Updated by: Todd Campbell, MD, FACS, Clinical Assistant Professor Department
of Surgery, Volunteer Faculty, Rowan University School of Osteopathic
Medicine, Stratford, NJ; Staff General Surgeon, Wilmington, VA, Medical
Center, Wilmington, DE. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network.
Internal review and update on 04/15/2019 by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Breast Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BreastCancer2_thumb.jpg)Breast
Cancer _Read more_

![Breast
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BreastDiseases_thumb.jpg)Breast
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

