Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003866.htm    
                                Description: A cytology exam of pleural fluid is a laboratory test to detect cancer cells and certain other cells inÂ the area that surrounds the lungs. This area is called the pleural space. Cytology means the study    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cytology exam of pleural fluid

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003866.htm

# Cytology exam of pleural fluid

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A cytology exam of pleural fluid is a laboratory test to detect cancer cells
and certain other cells inÂ the area that surrounds the lungs. This area is
called the pleural space. Cytology means the study of cells.

## How the Test is Performed

A sample of fluid from the pleural space is needed. The sample is taken using
a procedure called thoracentesis.

The procedure is done in the following way:

    * You sit on a bed or on the edge of a chair or bed. Your head and arms rest on a table.
    * A small area of skin on your back is cleaned. Numbing medicine (local anesthetic) is injected in this area.
    * The doctor inserts a needle through the skin and muscles of the chest wall into the pleural space.
    * Fluid is collected.
    * The needle is removed. A bandage is placed on the skin.

The fluid sample is sent to a laboratory. There, it is examined under the
microscope to determine what the cells look like and whether they are
abnormal.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is needed before the test. A chest x-ray will likely be
done before and after the test.

DO NOT cough, breathe deeply, or move during the test to avoid injury to the
lung.

## How the Test will Feel

You will feel stinging when the local anesthetic is injected. You may feel
pain or pressure when the needle is inserted into the pleural space.

Tell your health care provider if you feel short of breath or have chest pain.

## Why the Test is Performed

A cytology exam is used to look for cancer and precancerous cells. It may also
be done for other conditions, such as identifying systemic lupus erythematosus
cells.

Your doctor may order this test if you have signs of fluid buildup in the
pleural space. This condition is called pleural effusion. The test may also be
done if you have signs of lung cancer.

## Normal Results

Normal cells are seen.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

In an abnormal test, there are cancerous (malignant) cells. This may mean
there is a cancerous tumor. This test most often detects:

    * Breast cancer
    * Lymphoma
    * Lung cancer
    * Ovarian cancer
    * Stomach cancer 

## Risks

Risks are related to thoracentesis and may include:

    * Bleeding
    * Infection
    * Collapse of the lung (pneumothorax)
    * Difficulty breathing

## Alternative Names

Pleural fluid cytology; Lung cancer - pleural fluid

## References

Blok BK. Thoracentesis. In: Roberts JR, Custalow CB, Thomsen TW, eds. _Roberts
and Hedges' Clinical Procedures in Emergency Medicine and Acute Care_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 9.

Cibas ES. Pleural, pericardial, and peritoneal fluids. In: Cibas ES, Ducatman
BS, eds. _Cytology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 4.

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Thoracentesis - diagnostic. In: Chernecky CC, Berger
BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO:
Elsevier Saunders; 2013:1052-1135.

## Review Date 7/20/2018

Updated by: Allen J. Blaivas, DO, Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care, and
Sleep Medicine, VA New Jersey Health Care System, Clinical Assistant
Professor, Rutgers New Jersey Medical School, East Orange, NJ. Review provided
by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Breast Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BreastCancer2_thumb.jpg)Breast
Cancer _Read more_

![Lung Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LungCancer_thumb.jpg)Lung Cancer
_Read more_

![Lymphoma](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Lymphoma_thumb.jpg)Lymphoma _Read
more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

