Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007469.htm    
                                Description: A breast positron emission tomography (PET) scan is an imaging test that uses a radioactive substance (called a tracer) to look for breast cancer. This tracer can help identify areas of cancer that an    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

PET scan for breast cancer

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007469.htm

# PET scan for breast cancer

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A breast positron emission tomography (PET) scan is an imaging test that uses
a radioactive substance (called a tracer) to look for breast cancer. This
tracer can help identify areas of cancer that an MRI or CT scan may miss.

## How the Test is Performed

A PET scan requires a small amount of radioactive material (tracer). This
tracer is given through a vein (IV), usually on the inside of your elbow. It
travels through your blood and collects in organs and tissues. The tracer
helps the radiologist see certain areas or diseases more clearly.

You will need to wait nearby as your body absorbs the tracer. This usually
takes about 1 hour.

Then, you will lie on a narrow table, which slides into a large tunnel-shaped
scanner. The PET scanner detects signals from the tracer. A computer changes
the results into 3D pictures. The images are displayed on a monitor for your
doctor to read.

You must lie still during test. Too much movement can blur images and cause
errors.

The test takes about 90 minutes.

Most PET scans are performed along with a CT scan. This combination scan is
called a PET/CT.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You may be asked not to eat anything for 4 to 6 hours before the scan. You
will be able to drink water.

Tell your health care provider if:

    * You are afraid of close spaces (have claustrophobia). You may be given a medicine to help you feel sleepy and less anxious.
    * You are pregnant or think you might be pregnant.
    * You are breastfeeding.
    * You have any allergies to injected dye (contrast).
    * You take insulin for diabetes. You will need special preparation.

Always tell your provider about the medicines you're taking, including those
bought without a prescription. Sometimes, medicines can interfere with the
test results.

## How the Test will Feel

You may feel a sharp sting when the needle containing the tracer is placed
into your vein.

A PET scan causes no pain. The table may be hard or cold, but you can request
a blanket or pillow.

An intercom in the room allows you to speak to someone at any time.

There is no recovery time, unless you were given a medicine to relax.

## Why the Test is Performed

A PET scan is most often used when other tests, such as MRI scan or CT scan,
DO NOT provide enough information.

A breast PET scan is used only after a woman has been diagnosed with breast
cancer. It is done to see if the cancer has spread to other parts of the body,
such as theÂ lymph nodes, liver, lung, or bones.

If you have breast cancer, your doctor may order this scan:

    * Soon after your diagnosis to see if the cancer has spread
    * After treatment if there is concern that the cancer has come back
    * During treatment to see if the cancer is responding to treatment

A PET scan is not used to screen for, or diagnose, breast cancer.

## Normal Results

A normal result means there are no areas outside the breast in which the
radiotracer has abnormally collected. This result most likely means the breast
cancer has not spread to other parts of the body.

Very small areas of breast cancer may not show up on a PET scan.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may mean that the breast cancer has spread.

Blood sugar or insulin level may affect the test results in people with
diabetes.

## Risks

The amount of radiation used in a PET scan is low. It is about the same amount
of radiation as in most CT scans. Also, the radiation does not last for very
long in your body.

Women who are pregnant or breastfeeding should let their doctor know before
having this test. Infants and babies developing in the womb are more sensitive
to the effects of radiation because their organs are still growing.

It is possible, although very unlikely, to have an allergic reaction to the
radioactive substance. Some people have pain, redness, or swelling at the
injection site.

## Alternative Names

Breast positron emission tomography; PET - breast; PET - tumor imaging -
breast

## References

Bassett LW, Lee-Felker S. Breast imaging screening and diagnosis. In: Bland
KI, Copeland EM, Klimberg VS, Gradishar WJ, eds. _The Breast: Comprehensive
Management of Benign and Malignant Diseases_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 26.

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Positron emission tomography (PET) - diagnostic. In:
Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_.
6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:892-894.

National Cancer Institute website. Breast cancer treatment (adult) (PDQ) -
health professional version. www.cancer.gov/types/breast/hp/breast-treatment-
pdq. Updated November 12, 2019. Accessed November 19, 2019.

Tabouret-Viaud C, Botsikas D, Delattre BM, et al. PET/MR in breast cancer.
_Semin Nucl Med_. 2015;45(4):304-321. PMID: 26050658
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26050658.

## Review Date 7/26/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. Editorial update
10/15/2019. Editorial update 11/19/2019.

![Breast Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BreastCancer2_thumb.jpg)Breast
Cancer _Read more_

![Nuclear Scans](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NuclearScans_thumb.jpg)Nuclear
Scans _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

