Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000830.htm    
                                Description: Breast cancer risk factors are things that increase the chance that you could get cancer. Some risk factors you can control, such as drinking alcohol. Others, such as family history, you cannot control.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Understanding your breast cancer risk

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000830.htm

# Understanding your breast cancer risk

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Breast cancer risk factors are things that increase the chance that you could
get cancer. Some risk factors you can control, such as drinking alcohol.
Others, such as family history, you cannot control.

The more risk factors you have, the more your risk increases. However, it does
not mean you absolutely will get cancer. Many women who get breast cancer do
not have any known risk factors or a family history.

Understanding your risk factors can give you a better picture of what you can
do to help prevent breast cancer.

## Risk Factors You Cannot Control

Risk factors you cannot control include:

    *  **Age.** Your risk for breast cancer increases as you age. Most cancers are found in women age 55 and older.
    *  **Gene mutations.** Changes in genes linked with breast cancer, such as BRCA1, BRCA2, and others increase your risk. Gene mutations account for about 10% of all breast cancer cases.
    *  **Dense breast tissue.** Having more dense breast tissue and less fat breast tissue increases risk. Also, dense breast tissue can make tumors hard to see on mammography.
    *  **Radiation exposure.** Treatment involving radiation therapy to the chest wall as a child can increase your risk.
    *  **Family history of breast cancer.** If your mother, sister, or daughter was diagnosed with breast cancer, you have a higher risk.
    *  **Personal history of breast cancer.** If you have had breast cancer, you are at risk for breast cancer coming back.
    *  **Personal history of ovarian cancer.**
    *  **Abnormal cells found during biopsy.** If your breast tissue was examined in a lab and had abnormal features (but not cancer), your risk is higher.
    *  **Reproductive and menstrual history.** Getting your period before age 12, starting menopause after age 55, getting pregnant after age 30, or never getting pregnant all increase your risk.
    *  **DES (Diethylstilbestrol).** This is a drug given to pregnant women between 1940 and 1971. Women who took DES during pregnancy to prevent miscarriage have a slightly higher risk. Women exposed to the drug in the womb also have a slightly higher risk.
    *  **Race.** White women are diagnosed with breast cancer more often than African American/Black, Hispanic/Latina, Asian/Pacific Islander, or American Indian/Alaska Native women. 

## Risk Factors You Can Control

Risk factors you can control include:

    * Radiation therapy. Radiation therapy to the chest area before age 30 increases your risk.
    *  **Alcohol intake.** The more alcohol you drink, the greater your risk.
    *  **Long-term use of**hormone therapy. Taking estrogen and progestin together for menopause for 5 years or more increases your risk. It is not clear if, or how much, taking birth control pills that contain estrogen increase your risk.
    *  **Weight.** Overweight or obese women after menopause have a higher risk than women at healthy weights.
    *  **Physical inactivity.** Women who do not exercise regularly throughout life may have an increased risk. 

## How to Reduce Your Risk

Just because you have risk factors you cannot control does not mean you cannot
take steps to lower your risk. Start by making certain lifestyle changes and
working with your health care provider. Here are some things you can do to
lower your risk for breast cancer:

    * Maintain a healthy weight.
    * Exercise at least 4 hours a week.
    * Avoid alcohol, or have no more than one alcoholic drink in a day.
    * If possible, limit or reduce radiation from imaging tests, especially during puberty.
    * Breastfeeding, if possible, may decrease your risk.
    * Talk with your provider about the risks and benefits before taking hormone therapy. You may want to avoid taking estrogen combined with progesterone or progestin.
    * If you have a family history of breast cancer, ask your provider about genetic testing.
    * If you are younger than age 50 and have a high risk for breast cancer, talk to your provider about medicines to reduce breast cancer risk by blocking or reducing estrogens in the body. They include tamoxifen, raloxifene, and aromatase inhibitors.
    * If you are at high risk, talk with your provider about preventive surgery to remove breast tissue (mastectomy). It can reduce your risk by as much as 90%.
    * Consider surgery to remove your ovaries. It will lower estrogen in the body and can reduce your risk for breast cancer by as much as 50%. 

Some areas are unknown or not yet proven. Studies are looking at things like
smoking, diet, chemicals, and types of birth control pills. Talk to your
provider if you are interested in joining a clinical trial for breast cancer
prevention.

## When to Call the Doctor

You should call your provider if:

    * You have questions or concerns about your breast cancer risk.
    * You are interested in genetic testing, preventive medicines, or treatments.
    * You are due for a mammogram.

## Alternative Names

Carcinoma-lobular - risk; DCIS; LCIS - risk; Ductal carcinoma in situ - risk;
Lobular carcinoma in situ - risk; Breast cancer - prevention; BRCA - breast
cancer risk

## References

Moyer VA; U.S. Preventive Services Task Force. Risk assessment, genetic
counseling, and genetic testing for BRCA-related cancer in women: U.S.
Preventive Services Task Force recommendation statement. _Ann Intern Med_.
2014;160(4):271-281. PMID: 24366376 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24366376.

National Cancer Institute website. Breast cancer prevention (PDQ) - health
professional version. www.cancer.gov/types/breast/hp/breast-prevention-pdq.
Updated March 29, 2018. Accessed August 22, 2018.

Siu AL; U.S. Preventive Services Task Force. Screening for breast cancer: U.S.
Preventive Services Task Force recommendation statement. _Ann Intern Med_.
2016;164(4):279-296. PMID: 26757170 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26757170.

Wolff AC, Domchek SM, Davidson NE, Sacchini V, McCormick B. Cancer of the
breast. In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Doroshow JH, Kastan MB, Tepper JE,
eds. _Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2014:chap 91.

## Review Date 7/26/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Breast Cancer

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

