Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/pten-genetic-test/    
                                Description: A PTEN genetic test looks for a mutation in the gene called PTEN. If you have the mutation, you may get several noncancerous tumors called hamartomas. You may also be at higher risk for getting cancer. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

PTEN Genetic Test

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/pten-genetic-test/

# PTEN Genetic Test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a PTEN genetic test?

A PTEN genetic test looks for a change, known as a mutation, in a gene called
PTEN. Genes are the basic units of heredity passed down from your mother and
father.

The PTEN gene helps stop the growth of tumors. It's known as a tumor
suppressor. A tumor suppressor gene is like the brakes on a car. It puts the
"brakes" on cells, so they don't divide too quickly. If you have a PTEN
genetic mutation, it can cause the growth of noncancerous tumors called
hamartomas. Hamartomas can show up throughout the body. The mutation can also
lead to the development of cancerous tumors.

A PTEN genetic mutation can be inherited from your parents, or acquired later
in life from the environment or from a mistake that happens in your body
during cell division.

An inherited PTEN mutation can cause a variety of health disorders. Some of
these can start at infancy or early childhood. Others show up in adulthood.
These disorders are often grouped together and called PTEN hamartoma syndrome
(PTHS) and include:

    *  **Cowden syndrome,** a disorder that causes the growth of many hamartomas and increases the risk of several types of cancer, including cancers of the breast, uterus, thyroid, and colon. People with Cowden syndrome often have a larger than normal sized head (macrocephaly), developmental delays, and/or autism.
    *  **Bannayan-Riley-Ruvalcaba syndrome** also causes hamartomas and macrocephaly. In addition, people with this syndrome may have learning disabilities and/or autism. Males with the disorder often have dark freckles on the penis.
    *  **Proteus or Proteus-like syndrome** can cause an overgrowth of bones, skin, and other tissues, as well as hamartomas and macrocephaly.

Acquired (also known as somatic) PTEN genetic mutations are one of the
commonly found mutations in human cancer. These mutations have been found in
many different types of cancer, including prostate cancer, uterine cancer, and
some types of brain tumors.

Other names: PTEN gene, full gene analysis; PTEN sequencing and
deletion/duplication

## What is it used for?

The test is used to look for a PTEN genetic mutation. It is not a routine
test. It is usually given to people based on family history, symptoms, or
previous diagnosis of cancer, especially cancer of the breast, thyroid, or
uterus.

## Why do I need a PTEN genetic test?

You or your child may need a PTEN genetic test if you have a family history of
a PTEN genetic mutation and/or one or more of the following conditions or
symptoms:

    * Multiple hamartomas, especially in the gastrointestinal area
    * Macrocephaly (larger than normal sized head)
    * Developmental delays
    * Autism
    * Dark freckling of the penis in males
    * Breast cancer
    * Thyroid cancer
    * Uterine cancer in females

If you've been diagnosed with cancer and don't have a family history of the
disease, your health care provider may order this test to see if PTEN genetic
mutation may be causing your cancer. Knowing whether you have the mutation can
help your provider predict how your disease will develop and guide your
treatment.

## What happens during a PTEN genetic test?

A PTEN test is usually a blood test. During a blood test, a health care
professional will take a blood sample from a vein in your arm, using a small
needle. After the needle is inserted, a small amount of blood will be
collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel a little sting when the
needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than five minutes.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You usually don't need any special preparations for a PTEN test.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

## What do the results mean?

If your results show you have a PTEN genetic mutation, it does not mean you
have cancer, but your risk is higher than most people. But more frequent
cancer screenings can reduce your risk. Cancer is more treatable when found in
the early stages. If you have the mutation, your health care provider may
recommend one or more of the following screening tests:

    * Colonoscopy, starting at age 35â40
    * Mammogram, starting at age 30 for women
    * Monthly breast self-exams for women
    * Yearly uterine screening for women
    * Yearly thyroid screening
    * Yearly check of skin for growths
    * Yearly kidney screening

Yearly thyroid and skin screenings are also recommended for children with a
PTEN genetic mutation.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about a PTEN genetic test?

If you've been diagnosed with a PTEN genetic mutation or are thinking about
getting tested, it may help to speak to a genetic counselor. A genetic
counselor is a specially trained professional in genetics and genetic testing.
If you haven't yet been tested, the counselor can help you understand the
risks and benefits of testing. If you have been tested, the counselor can help
you understand the results and direct you to support services and other
resources.

## References

    1. American Cancer Society [Internet]. Atlanta: American Cancer Society Inc.; c2018. Oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes [updated 2014 Jun 25; cited 2018 Jul 3]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.org/cancer/cancer-causes/genetics/genes-and-cancer/oncogenes-tumor-suppressor-genes.html
    2. American Cancer Society [Internet]. Atlanta: American Cancer Society Inc.; c2018. Thyroid Cancer Risk Factors; [updated 2017 Feb 9; cited 2018 Jul 3]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.org/cancer/thyroid-cancer/causes-risks-prevention/risk-factors.html
    3. Cancer.Net [Internet]. Alexandria (VA): American Society of Clinical Oncology; c2005â2018. Cowden Syndrome; 2017 Oct [cited 2018 Jul 3]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.net/cancer-types/cowden-syndrome
    4. Cancer.Net [Internet]. Alexandria (VA): American Society of Clinical Oncology; c2005â2018. Genetic Testing for Cancer Risk; 2017 Jul [cited 2018 Jul 3]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.net/navigating-cancer-care/cancer-basics/genetics/genetic-testing-cancer-risk
    5. Cancer.Net [Internet]. Alexandria (VA): American Society of Clinical Oncology; c2005â2018. Hereditary Breast and Ovarian Cancer; 2017 Jul [cited 2018 Jul 3]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.net/cancer-types/hereditary-breast-and-ovarian-cancer
    6. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Cancer Prevention and Control: Screening Tests [updated 2018 May 2; cited 2018 Jul 3]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/cancer/dcpc/prevention/screening.htm
    7. Children's Hospital of Philadelphia [Internet]. Philadelphia: The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia; c2018. PTEN Hamartoma Tumor Syndrome [cited 2018 Jul 3]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.chop.edu/conditions-diseases/pten-hamartoma-tumor-syndrome
    8. Dana-Farber Cancer Institute [Internet]. Boston: Dana-Farber Cancer Institute; c2018. Cancer Genetics and Prevention: Cowden Syndrome (CS); 2013 Aug [cited 2018 Jul 3]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.dana-farber.org/legacy/uploadedfiles/library/adult-care/treatment-and-support/centers-and-programs/cancer-genetics-and-prevention/cowden-syndrome.pdf
    9. Mayo Clinic: Mayo Medical Laboratories [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1995â2018. Test ID: BRST6: Hereditary Breast Cancer 6 Gene Panel: Clinical and Interpretive [cited 2018 Jul 3]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayomedicallaboratories.com/test-catalog/Clinical+and+Interpretive/64332
    10. Mayo Clinic: Mayo Medical Laboratories [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1995â2018. Test ID: PTENZ: PTEN Gene, Full Gene Analysis: Clinical and Interpretive [cited 2018 Jul 3]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayomedicallaboratories.com/test-catalog/Clinical+and+Interpretive/35534
    11. MD Anderson Cancer Center [Internet]. The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center; c2018. Hereditary Cancer Syndromes [cited 2018 Jul 3]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mdanderson.org/prevention-screening/family-history/hereditary-cancer-syndromes.html
    12. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Genetic Testing for Hereditary Cancer Syndromes [cited 2018 Jul 3]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/causes-prevention/genetics/genetic-testing-fact-sheet
    13. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms: gene [cited 2018 Jul 3]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/publications/dictionaries/cancer-terms/search?contains=false&q=gene
    14. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Blood Tests [cited 2018 Jul 3]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    15. National Organization for Rare Disorders [Internet]. Danbury (CT): National Organization for Rare Disorders; c2018. PTEN Hamartoma Tumor Syndrome [cited 2018 Jul 3]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/pten-hamartoma-tumor-syndrome
    16. NeoGenomics [Internet]. Fort Myers (FL): NeoGenomics Laboratories Inc.; c2018. PTEN Mutation Analysis [cited 2018 Jul 3]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://neogenomics.com/test-menu/pten-mutation-analysis
    17. NIH U.S. National Library of Medicine: Genetics Home Reference [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; PTEN gene; 2018 Jul 3 [cited 2018 Jul 3]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://ghr.nlm.nih.gov/gene/PTEN
    18. NIH U.S. National Library of Medicine: Genetics Home Reference [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What is a gene mutation and how do mutations occur?; 2018 Jul 3 [cited 2018 Jul 3]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://ghr.nlm.nih.gov/primer/mutationsanddisorders/genemutation
    19. Quest Diagnostics [Internet]. Quest Diagnostics; c2000â2017. Test Center: PTEN Sequencing and Deletion/Duplication [cited 2018 Jul 3]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.questdiagnostics.com/testcenter/TestDetail.action?ntc=92566
    20. St. Jude Children's Research Hospital [Internet]. Memphis (TN): St. Jude Children's Research Hospital; c2018. PTEN Hamartoma Tumor Syndrome [cited 2018 Jul 3]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.stjude.org/disease/pten-hamartoma-tumor-syndrome.html
    21. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2018. Health Encyclopedia: Breast Cancer: Genetic Testing [cited 2018 Jul 3]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=34&contentid=16421-1

## Related Health Topics

    * Benign Tumors
    * Breast Cancer
    * Cancer
    * Colonoscopy
    * Colorectal Cancer
    * Genetic Counseling
    * Genetic Disorders
    * Genetic Testing
    * Health Screening
    * Mammography
    * Prostate Cancer
    * Thyroid Cancer
    * Uterine Cancer

## Related Lab Test Information

    * BRCA Test
    * CA-125 Blood Test (Ovarian Cancer)
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results
    * Karyotype Genetic Test
    * TP53 Genetic Test
    * Tumor Marker Tests

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 26 February 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

