Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000909.htm    
                                Description: Hormone therapy to treat breast cancer uses drugs or treatments to lower levels or block the action of female sex hormones (estrogen and progesterone) in a woman    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hormone therapy for breast cancer

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000909.htm

# Hormone therapy for breast cancer

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hormone therapy to treat breast cancer uses drugs or treatments to lower
levels or block the action of female sex hormones (estrogen and progesterone)
in a woman's body. This helps slow the growth of many breast cancers.

Hormone therapy makes cancer less likely to return after breast cancer
surgery. It also slows the growth of breast cancer that has spread to other
parts of the body.

Hormone therapy can also be used to help prevent cancer in women at high risk
for breast cancer.

It is different from hormone therapy to treat menopause symptoms.

## Hormones and Breast Cancer

The hormones estrogen and progesterone make some breast cancers grow. They are
called hormone-sensitive breast cancers. Most breast cancers are sensitive to
hormones.

Estrogen and progesterone are produced in the ovaries and other tissues such
as fat and skin. After menopause, the ovaries stop producing these hormones.
But the body continues to make a small amount.

Hormone therapy only works on hormone-sensitive cancers. To see if hormone
therapy may work, doctors test a sample of the tumor that has been removed
during surgery to see if the cancer might be sensitive to hormones.

Hormone therapy can work in two ways:

    * By blocking the estrogen from acting on cancer cells
    * By lowering estrogen levels in a woman's body

## Drugs That Block Estrogen

Some drugs work by blocking estrogen from causing cancer cells to grow.

Tamoxifen (Nolvadex) is a drug that prevents estrogen from telling cancer
cells to grow. It has a number of benefits:

    * Taking Tamoxifen for 5 years after breast cancer surgery cuts the chance of cancer coming back by half. Some studies show that taking it for 10 years may work even better.
    * It reduces the risk that cancer will grow in the other breast.
    * It slows the growth and shrinks cancer that has spread.
    * It reduces the risk of getting cancer in women who are high risk.

Other drugs that work in a similar way are used to treat advanced cancer that
has spread:

    * Toremifene (Fareston)
    * Fulvestrant (Faslodex) 

## Drugs That Lower Estrogen Levels

Some drugs, called aromatase inhibitors (AIs), stop the body from making
estrogen in tissues such as fat and skin. But, these drugs do not work to make
the ovaries stop making estrogen. For this reason, they are used mainly to
lower estrogen levels in women who have been through menopause
(postmenopausal). Their ovaries no longer make estrogen.

Premenopausal women can take AIs if they are also taking drugs that stop their
ovaries from making estrogen.

Aromatase inhibitors include:

    * Anastrozole (Arimidex)
    * Letrozole (Femara)
    * Exemestane (Aromasin) 

## Lowering Estrogen Levels From the Ovaries

This type of treatment only works in premenopausal women who have functioning
ovaries. It can help some types of hormone therapy work better. It is also
used to treat cancer that has spread.

There are three ways to lower estrogen levels from the ovaries:

    * Surgery to remove the ovaries
    * Radiation to damage the ovaries so they no longer function, which is permanent
    * Drugs such as goserelin (Zoladex) and leuprolide (Lupron) that temporarily stop the ovaries from making estrogen

Any of these methods will put a woman into menopause. This causes symptoms of
menopause:

    * Hot flashes
    * Night sweats
    * Vaginal dryness
    * Mood swings
    * Depression
    * Loss of interest in sex

## Drug Side Effects

The side effects of hormone therapy depend on the drug. Common side effects
include hot flashes, night sweats, and vaginal dryness.

Some drugs can cause less common but more serious side effects, such as:

    *  **Tamoxifen.** Blood clots, stroke, cataracts, endometrial and uterine cancers, mood swings, depression, and loss of interest in sex.
    *  **Aromatase inhibitors.** High cholesterol, heart attack, bone loss, joint pain, mood swings, and depression.
    *  **Fulvestrant.** Loss of appetite, nausea, vomiting, constipation, diarrhea, stomach pain, weakness, and pain. 

## Weighing the Options

Deciding on hormonal therapy for breast cancer can be a complex and even
difficult decision. The type of therapy you receive may depend on whether you
have gone through menopause before treatment for breast cancer. It also may
depend on whether you want to have children. Talking with your health care
provider about your options and the benefits and risks for each treatment can
help you make the best decision for you.

## Alternative Names

Hormonal therapy - breast cancer; Hormone treatment - breast cancer; Endocrine
therapy; Hormone-sensitive cancers - therapy; ER positive - therapy; Aromatase
inhibitors - breast cancer

## References

American Cancer Society website. Hormone therapy for breast cancer.
www.cancer.org/cancer/breast-cancer/treatment/hormone-therapy-for-breast-
cancer.html. Updated September 18, 2019. Accessed November 11, 2019.

Henry NL, Shah PD, Haider I, Freer PE, Jagsi R, Sabel MS. Cancer of the
breast. In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Kastan MB, Doroshow JH, Tepper JE,
eds. _Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2020:chap 88.

National Cancer Institute website. Hormone therapy for breast cancer.
www.cancer.gov/types/breast/breast-hormone-therapy-fact-sheet. Updated
February 14, 2017. Accessed November 11, 2019.

Rugo HS, Rumble RB, Macrae E, et al. Endocrine therapy for hormone receptor-
positive metastatic breast cancer: American Society of Clinical Oncology
Guideline. _J Clin Oncol_. 2016;34(25):3069-3103. PMID: 27217461
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27217461.

## Review Date 9/24/2019

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Breast Cancer

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

