Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007360.htm    
                                Description: A breast MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) scan is an imaging test that uses powerful magnets and radio waves to create pictures of the breast and surrounding tissue. It does not use radiation (x-rays).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Breast MRI scan

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007360.htm

# Breast MRI scan

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A breast MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) scan is an imaging test that uses
powerful magnets and radio waves to create pictures of the breast and
surrounding tissue. It does not use radiation (x-rays).

A breast MRI may be done in combination with mammography or ultrasound. It is
not a replacement for mammography.

## How the Test is Performed

You will wear a hospital gown or clothes without metal snaps or a zipper
(sweatpants and a t-shirt). Some types of metal can cause blurry images.

You will lie on your stomach on a narrow table with your breasts hanging down
into cushioned openings. The table slides into a large tunnel-like tube.

Some exams require a special dye (contrast). Most of the time, you will get
the dye through a vein (IV) in your hand or forearm. The dye helps the doctor
(radiologist) see some areas more clearly.

During the MRI, the person who operates the machine will watch you from
another room. The test lasts 30 to 60 minutes, but may take longer.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You may be asked not to eat or drink anything for 4 to 6 hours before the
scan.

Tell your health care provider if you are afraid of tight spaces (have
claustrophobia). You may be given a medicine to help you feel sleepy and less
anxious. Also, your provider may suggest an "open" MRI. The machine is not as
close to the body in this type of test.

Before the test, tell your provider if you have:

    * Brain aneurysm clips
    * Certain types of artificial heart valves
    * Heart defibrillator or pacemaker
    * Inner ear (cochlear) implants
    * Kidney disease or dialysis (you may not be able to receive the IV contrast)
    * Recently placed artificial joints
    * Certain types of vascular stents
    * Worked with sheet metal in the past (you may need tests to check for metal pieces in your eyes) 

Because the MRI contains strong magnets, metal objects are not allowed into
the room with the MRI scanner:

    * Pens, pocketknives, and eyeglasses may fly across the room.
    * Items such as jewelry, watches, credit cards, and hearing aids can be damaged.
    * Pins, hairpins, metal zippers, and similar metallic items can distort the images.
    * Removable dental work should be taken out just before the scan. 

## How the Test will Feel

An MRI exam causes no pain. You will need to lie still. Too much movement can
blur MRI images and cause errors.

If you are very anxious, you may be given medicine to calm your nerves.

The table may be hard or cold, but you can ask for a blanket or pillow. The
machine makes loud thumping and humming noises when turned on. You will likely
be given ear plugs to help reduce the noise.

An intercom in the room lets you to speak to someone at any time. Some MRIs
have televisions and special headphones to help the time pass.

There is no recovery time, unless you were given a medicine to relax. After an
MRI scan, you can return to your normal diet, activity, and medicines unless
your doctor tells you otherwise.

## Why the Test is Performed

MRI provides detailed pictures of the breast. It also provides clear pictures
of parts of the breast that are hard to see clearly on an ultrasound or
mammogram.

Breast MRI may also be performed to:

    * Check for more cancer in the same breast or the other breast after breast cancer has been diagnosed
    * Distinguish between scar tissue and tumors in the breast
    * Evaluate a breast lump (most often after a biopsy)
    * Evaluate an abnormal result on a mammogram or breast ultrasound
    * Evaluate for possible rupture of breast implants
    * Find any cancer that remains after surgery or chemotherapy
    * Show blood flow through the breast area
    * Guide a biopsy (not usually done)

An MRI of the breast may also be done after a mammogram to screen for breast
cancer in women who:

    * Are at very high risk for breast cancer (those with a strong family history or genetic markers for breast cancer)
    * Have very dense breast tissue

Before having a breast MRI, talk to your provider about the pros and cons of
having the test. Ask about:

    * Your risk for breast cancer
    * Whether screening decreases your chance of dying from breast cancer
    * Whether there is any harm from breast cancer screening, such as side effects from testing or overtreatment of cancer when discovered

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be due to:

    * Breast cancer 
    * Cysts
    * Leaking or ruptured breast implants
    * Abnormal breast tissue that is not cancer
    * Scar tissue 

Consult your provider if you have any questions and concerns.

## Risks

MRI contains no radiation. No side effects from the magnetic fields and radio
waves have been reported.

The most common type of contrast (dye) used is gadolinium. It is very safe.
Allergic reactions to this dye are rare. However, gadolinium can be harmful to
people with kidney problems that need dialysis. If you have kidney problems,
tell your provider before the test.

The strong magnetic fields created during an MRI can make heart pacemakers and
other implants not work as well. It can also cause a piece of metal inside
your body to move or shift.

## Considerations

Breast MRI is more sensitive than mammogram, especially when it is performed
using contrast dye. However, breast MRI may not always be able to distinguish
breast cancer from noncancerous breast growths. This can lead to a false-
positive result.

MRI also cannot pick up tiny pieces of calcium (microcalcifications), which
mammogram can detect.

A biopsy is needed to confirm the results of a breast MRI.

## Alternative Names

MRI - breast; Magnetic resonance imaging - breast; Breast cancerÂ - MRI;
Breast cancer screening - MRI

## References

American Cancer Society website. American Cancer Society recommendations for
the early detection of breast cancer. www.cancer.org/cancer/breast-
cancer/screening-tests-and-early-detection/american-cancer-society-
recommendations-for-the-early-detection-of-breast-cancer.html. Updated July 7,
2017. Accessed September 29, 2017.

American College of Radiology website. ACR practice parameter for the
performance of contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the
breast. www.acr.org/-/media/ACR/Files/Practice-Parameters/mr-contrast-
breast.pdf. Updated October 1, 2014. Accessed September 29, 2017.

AmericanÂ Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) website. ACOG
statement on breast cancer screening guidelines. www.acog.org/About-ACOG/News-
Room/Statements/2016/ACOG-Statement-on-Breast-Cancer-Screening-Guidelines.
Updated January 11, 2016. Accessed September 29, 2017.

National Cancer Institute website. Breast cancer screening (PDQ) - health
professional version. www.cancer.gov/types/breast/hp/breast-screening-pdq.
Updated June 19, 2017. Accessed September 29, 2017.

Siu AL; US Preventive Services Task Force. Screening for breast cancer: US
Preventive Services Task Force recommendation statement. _Ann Intern Med_.
2016;164(4):279-296. PMID: 26757170 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26757170.

## Review Date 8/14/2017

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Internal review and update 11/06/2018 by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Breast Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BreastCancer2_thumb.jpg)Breast
Cancer _Read more_

![Breast
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BreastDiseases_thumb.jpg)Breast
Diseases _Read more_

![MRI Scans](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MRIScans_thumb.jpg)MRI Scans _Read
more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

