Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003380.htm    
                                Description: A mammogram is an x-ray picture of the breasts. It is used to find breast tumors and cancer.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Mammogram

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003380.htm

# Mammogram

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A mammogram is an x-ray picture of the breasts. It is used to find breast
tumors and cancer.

## How the Test is Performed

You will be asked to undress from the waist up. You will be given a gown to
wear. Depending on the type of equipment used, you will sit or stand.

One breast at a time is rested on a flat surface that contains the x-ray
plate. A device called a compressor will be pressed firmly against the breast.
This helps flatten the breast tissue.

The x-ray pictures are taken from several angles. You may be asked to hold
your breath as each picture is taken.

You may be asked to come back at a later date for more mammogram images. This
does not always mean you have breast cancer. Your health care provider may
simply need to recheck an area that could not be clearly seen on the first
test.

TYPES OF MAMMOGRAPHY

Traditional mammography uses film, similar to routine x-rays.

Digital mammography is the most common technique:

    * It is now used in most breast screening centers.
    * It allows the x-ray image of the breast to be viewed and manipulated on a computer screen.
    * It may be more accurate in younger women with dense breasts. It has not yet been proven to help reduce a woman's risk of dying of breast cancer compared to film mammography. 

Three-dimensional (3D) mammography is a type of digital mammography.

## How to Prepare for the Test

DO NOT use deodorant, perfume, powders, or ointments under your arms or on
your breasts on the day of the mammogram. These substances may hide a portion
of the images. Remove all jewelry from your neck and chest area.

Tell your provider and the x-ray technologist if you are pregnant or
breastfeeding, or if you've had a breast biopsy.

## How the Test will Feel

The compressor surfaces may feel cold. When the breast is pressed down, you
may have some pain. This needs to be done to get good quality images.

## Why the Test is Performed

When and how often to have a screening mammogram is a choice you must make.
Different expert groups do not fully agree on the best timing for this test.

Before having a mammogram, talk to your provider about the pros and cons of
having the test. Ask about:

    * Your risk for breast cancer
    * Whether screening decreases your chance of dying from breast cancer
    * Whether there is any harm from breast cancer screening, such as side effects from testing or overtreatment of cancer when it's discovered 

Mammography is performed to screen women to detect early breast cancer when it
is more likely to be cured. Mammography is generally recommended for:

    * Women starting at age 40, repeated every 1 to 2 years. (This is not recommended by all expert organizations.)
    * All women starting at age 50, repeated every 1 to 2 years.
    * Women with a mother or sister who had breast cancer at a younger age should consider yearly mammograms. They should begin earlier than the age at which their youngest family member was diagnosed. 

Mammography is also used to:

    * Follow a woman who has had an abnormal mammogram.
    * Evaluate a woman who has symptoms of a breast disease. These symptoms may include a lump, nipple discharge, breast pain, dimpling of the skin on the breast, changes of the nipple, or other findings. 

## Normal Results

Breast tissue that shows no signs of a mass or calcifications is considered
normal.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Most abnormal findings on a screening mammogram turn out to be benign (not
cancer) or nothing to worry about. New findings or changes must be further
evaluated.

A radiology doctor (radiologist) may see the following types of findings on a
mammogram:

    * A well-outlined, regular, clear spot (this is more likely to be a noncancerous condition, such as a cyst)
    * Masses or lumps
    * Dense areas in the breast that can be breast cancer or hide breast cancer
    * Calcifications, which are caused by tiny deposits of calcium in the breast tissue (most calcifications are not a sign of cancer) 

At times, the following tests are also needed to further examine mammogram
findings:

    * Additional mammogram views, including magnification or compression views
    * Breast ultrasound
    * Breast MRI exam (less commonly done) 

Comparing your current mammogram to your past mammograms helps the radiologist
tell whether you had an abnormal finding in the past and whether it has
changed.

When mammogram or ultrasound results look suspicious, a biopsy is done to test
the tissue and see if it is cancerous. Types of biopsies include:

    * Stereotactic
    * Ultrasound
    * Open 

## Risks

The level of radiation is low and any risk from mammography is very low. If
you are pregnant and need to have an abnormality checked, your belly area will
be covered and protected by a lead apron.

Routine screening mammography is not done during pregnancy or while
breastfeeding.

## Alternative Names

Mammography; Breast cancer - mammography; Breast cancer - screening
mammography; Breast lump - mammogram; Breast tomosynthesis

## Images

    * ![Female Breast](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1075t.jpg)Female breast
    * ![Breast lumps](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17029t.jpg)Breast lumps
    * ![Causes of breast lumps](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17080t.jpg)Causes of breast lumps
    * ![Mammary gland](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17084t.jpg)Mammary gland
    * ![Abnormal discharge from the nipple](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17093t.jpg)Abnormal discharge from the nipple
    * ![Fibrocystic breast disease](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17185t.jpg)Fibrocystic breast disease
    * ![Mammogram](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23188t.jpg)Mammography

## References

American Cancer Society website. American Cancer Society recommendations for
the early detection of breast cancer. www.cancer.org/cancer/breast-
cancer/screening-tests-and-early-detection/american-cancer-society-
recommendations-for-the-early-detection-of-breast-cancer.html. Updated October
3, 2019. Accessed January 23, 2020.

American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) website. ACOG
Practice Bulletin: Breast cancer risk assessment and screening in average-risk
women. www.acog.org/Clinical-Guidance-and-Publications/Practice-
Bulletins/Committee-on-Practice-Bulletins-Gynecology/Breast-Cancer-Risk-
Assessment-and-Screening-in-Average-Risk-Women. No. 179, July 2017. Accessed
January 23, 2020.

National Cancer Institute website. Breast cancer screening (PDQ) - health
professional version. www.cancer.gov/types/breast/hp/breast-screening-pdq.
Updated June 19, 2017. Accessed December 18, 2019.

Siu AL; US Preventive Services Task Force. Screening for breast cancer: US
Preventive Services Task Force recommendation statement. _Ann Intern Med._
2016;164(4):279-296. PMID: 26757170 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26757170.

## Review Date 1/21/2020

Updated by: Neil Grossman, MD, MetroWest Radiology Associates, Framingham, MA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Breast Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BreastCancer2_thumb.jpg)Breast
Cancer _Read more_

![Mammography](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Mammography_thumb.jpg)Mammography
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

