Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000623.htm    
                                Description: The best position for your baby inside your uterus at the time of delivery is head down. This position makes it easier and safer for your baby to pass through the birth canal.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Breech birth

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000623.htm

# Breech birth

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The best position for your baby inside your uterus at the time of delivery is
head down. This position makes it easier and safer for your baby to pass
through the birth canal.

In the last weeks of pregnancy, your health care provider will check to see
what position your baby is in.

If your baby's position does not feel normal, you may need an ultrasound. If
the ultrasound shows your baby is breech, your provider will talk with you
about your options for a safe delivery.

## What is Breech?

In breech position, the baby's bottom is down. There are a few types of
breech:

    * Complete breech means the baby is bottom-first, with knees bent.
    * Frank breech means the baby's legs are stretched up, with feet near the head.
    * Footling breech means one leg is lowered over the mother's cervix. 

You are more likely to have a breech baby if you:

    * Go into early labor
    * Have an abnormally shaped uterus, fibroids, or too much amniotic fluid
    * Have more than one baby in your womb
    * Have placenta previa (when the placenta is on the lower part of the uterine wall, blocking the cervix) 

## Turning Your Baby (External Version)

If your baby is not in a head-down position after your 36th week, your
provider can explain your choices and their risks to help you decide what
steps to take next.

Your provider may offer to try to guide the baby into the right position. This
is called external version. It involves pushing on your belly while watching
the baby on an ultrasound. The pushing may cause some discomfort.

If your provider tries to change your baby's position, you may be given a
medicine that relaxes the muscles of your uterus. You can also expect:

    * An ultrasound to show your provider where the placenta and baby are located.
    * Your provider to push on your abdomen to try and turn your baby's position.
    * Your baby's heartbeat to be monitored.

Success is higher if your provider tries this procedure at about 35 to 37
weeks. At this time, your baby is a little smaller, and there is most often
more fluid around the baby. Your baby is also old enough in case there is a
problem during the procedure that makes it necessary to deliver the baby
promptly. This is rare. External version cannot be done once you are in active
labor.

Risks are low for this procedure when a skilled provider does it. Rarely, it
may lead to an emergency cesarean birth (C-section) if:

    * Part of the placenta tears away from the lining of your womb
    * Your baby's heartbeat drops too low, which can happen if the umbilical cord is tightly wrapped around the baby

## If My Baby Doesn't Turn, Will I Have a C-section?

Most babies who remain breech after an attempt at turning them will be
delivered by C-section. Your provider will explain the risk of delivering a
breech baby vaginally.

Today, the option to deliver a breech baby vaginally is not offered in most
cases. The safest way for a breech baby to be born is by C-section.

The danger of breech birth is mostly due to the fact that the largest part of
a baby is its head. When the breech baby's pelvis or hips deliver first, the
woman's pelvis may not be large enough for the head to be delivered also. This
can result in a baby getting stuck in the birth canal, which can cause injury
or death.

The umbilical cord may also be damaged or blocked. This can reduce the baby's
oxygen supply.

If a C-section is planned, it will most often be scheduled for no earlier than
39 weeks. You will have an ultrasound at the hospital to confirm the position
of your baby just before the surgery.

There is also a chance that you will go into labor or your water will break
before your planned C-section. If that happens, call your provider right away
and go to the hospital. It is important to go in right away if you have a
breech baby and your bag of water breaks. This is because there is a higher
chance that the cord will come out even before you are in labor. This can be
very dangerous for the baby.

## Alternative Names

Pregnancy - breech; Delivery - breech

## References

Lanni SM, Gherman R, Gonik B. Malpresentations. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR,
Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 17.

Thorp JM, Grantz KL. Clinical aspects of normal and abnormal labor. In: Resnik
R, Lockwood CJ, Moore TR, Greene MF, Copel JA, Silver RM, eds. _Creasy and
Resnik's Maternal-Fetal Medicine: Principles and Practice_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2019:chap 43.

Vora S, Dobiesz VA. Emergency childbirth. In: Roberts JR, Custalow CB, Thomsen
TW, eds. _Roberts and Hedges' Clinical Procedures in Emergency Medicine and
Acute Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2019:chap 56.

## Review Date 9/25/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Childbirth Problems

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

