Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003408.htm    
                                Description: Fetal scalp pH testing is a procedure performed when a woman is in active labor to determine if the baby is getting enough oxygen.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Fetal scalp pH testing

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003408.htm

# Fetal scalp pH testing

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Fetal scalp pH testing is a procedure performed when a woman is in active
labor to determine if the baby is getting enough oxygen.

## How the Test is Performed

The procedure takes about 5 minutes. The mother lies on her back with her feet
in stirrups. If her cervix is dilated at least 3 to 4 centimeters, a plastic
cone is placed in the vagina and fit snugly against the scalp of the fetus.

The scalp of the fetus is cleansed and a small blood sample is taken for
examination. The blood is collected in a thin tube. The tube is either sent to
the hospital laboratory or analyzed by a machine in the labor and delivery
department. In either case, results are available in just a few minutes.

If the woman's cervix is not dilated enough, the test cannot be done.

## How to Prepare for the Test

The health care provider will explain the procedure and its risks. There isn't
always a separate consent form for this procedure because many hospitals
consider it part of the general consent form you signed at admission.

## How the Test will Feel

The procedure should feel like a long pelvic exam. At this stage of labor,
many women have already had epidural anesthesia and may not feel the pressure
of the procedure at all.

## Why the Test is Performed

Sometimes fetal heart monitoring doesn't provide enough information about the
well-being of a baby. In these cases, testing the scalp pH can help the doctor
decide whether the fetus is getting enough oxygen during labor. This helps
determine whether the baby is healthy enough to continue labor, or if a
forceps delivery or cesarean birth might be the best route of delivery.

Although the test is not uncommon, most deliveries do not involve fetal scalp
pH testing.

This test is not recommended for mothers with infections such as HIV/AIDS or
hepatitis C.

## Normal Results

Normal fetal blood sample results are:

    * Normal pH: 7.25 to 7.35
    * Borderline pH: 7.20 to 7.25

The examples above are common measurements for results of these tests. Normal
value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs use
different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your doctor about
the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A fetal scalp blood pH level of less than 7.20 is considered abnormal.

In general, low pH suggests that the baby does not have enough oxygen. This
may mean that the baby is not tolerating labor very well. The results of a
fetal scalp pH sample need to be interpreted for each labor. The provider may
feel that the results mean the baby needs to be delivered quickly, either by
forceps or by C-section.

Fetal scalp pH testing may need to be repeated a few times during a
complicated labor to keep checking on the baby.

## Risks

Risks include the following:

    * Continued bleeding from the puncture site (more likely if the fetus has a pH imbalance) 
    * Infection 
    * Bruising of the baby's scalp

## Alternative Names

Fetal scalp blood; Scalp pH testing; Fetal blood testing - scalp; Fetal
distress - fetal scalp testing; Labor - fetal scalp testing

## Images

    * ![Fetal blood testing](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9323t.jpg)Fetal blood testing

## References

Marcdante KJ, Kliegman RM. Assessment of the mother, fetus, and newborn. In:
Marcdante KJ, Kliegman RM, eds. _Nelson Essentials of Pediatrics_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 58.

Miller DA. Intrapartum fetal evaluation. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR, Simpson JL,
et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 15.

## Review Date 6/28/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Childbirth](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Childbirth_thumb.jpg)Childbirth
_Read more_

![Childbirth
Problems](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChildBirthProblems_thumb.jpg)Childbirth
Problems _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

