Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000515.htm    
                                Description: Most pregnancies last 37 to 42 weeks, but some take longer. If your pregnancy lasts more than 42 weeks, it is called post-term (past due). This happens in a small number of pregnancies.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

When you pass your due date

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000515.htm

# When you pass your due date

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Most pregnancies last 37 to 42 weeks, but some take longer. If your pregnancy
lasts more than 42 weeks, it is called post-term (past due). This happens in a
small number of pregnancies.

While there are some risks in a post-term pregnancy, most post-term babies are
born healthy. Your health care provider can do special tests to check on the
health of your baby. Keeping a close eye on the baby's health will help
increase the chance of good outcomes.

## Why Does it Happen?

Many women who go past 40 weeks are not really post-term. Their due date was
just not calculated correctly. After all, a due date is not exact, but an
estimate.

Your due date is estimated based on the first day of your last period, the
size of your uterus (womb) early in your pregnancy, and with an ultrasound
early in pregnancy. However:

    * Many women cannot remember the exact day of their last period, which makes it hard to predict a due date.
    * Not all menstrual cycles are the same length.
    * Some women DO NOT get an ultrasound early in pregnancy to establish their most accurate due date.

When a pregnancy truly is post-term and goes past 42 weeks, no one knows for
sure what causes it to happen.

## What are the Risks?

If you have not given birth by 42 weeks, there are greater health risks for
you and your baby.

The placenta is the link between you and your baby. As you pass your due date,
the placenta may not work as well as before. This could lessen the amount of
oxygen and nutrients that the baby gets from you. As a result, the baby:

    * May not grow as well as before.
    * May show signs of fetal stress. This means the baby's heart rate does not react normally.
    * May have a harder time during labor.
    * Has a higher chance of stillbirth (being born dead). Stillbirth is not common but begins to increase the most after 42 weeks gestation.

Other problems that may occur:

    * If the baby grows too big, it can make it harder for you to deliver vaginally. You may need to give birth by cesarean birth (C-section).
    * The amount of amniotic fluid (water surrounding the baby) may decrease. When this happens, the umbilical cord may get pinched or pressed. This can also limit the oxygen and nutrients the baby gets from you.

Any of these problems can increase the need for a C-section.

## What if my Pregnancy Goes Past the due Date?

Until you reach 41 weeks, your provider may not do anything unless there are
problems.

If you reach 41 weeks (1 week overdue), your provider will do tests to check
on the baby. These tests include a non-stress test and biophysical profile
(ultrasound).

    * The tests may show that the baby is active and healthy, and the amount of amniotic fluid is normal. If so, your doctor may decide to wait until you go into labor on your own.
    * These tests can also show that the baby is having problems. You and your provider must decide if labor needs to be induced. 

When you reach between 41 and 42 weeks, the health risks to you and your baby
become even greater. Your provider will likely want to induce labor. In older
women, especially older than 40, it may be recommended to induce labor as
early as 39 weeks.

## How Will the Doctor Induce Labor?

When you have not gone into labor on your own, your provider will help you
start. This may be done by:

    * Using a medicine called oxytocin. This medicine can cause contractions to start and is given through an IV line.
    * Placing medicine suppositories inside the vagina. This will help ripen (soften) the cervix and may help labor to start.
    * Breaking your water (rupturing the membranes which hold amniotic fluid) can be done for some women to help labor start.
    * Putting a catheter or tube in the cervix to help it begin to dilate slowly. 

## Will I Need a C-section?

You will only need a C-section if:

    * Your labor cannot be started by your provider with the techniques described above.
    * Your baby's heart rate tests show possible fetal distress.
    * Your labor stops progressing normally once it has started. 

## Alternative Names

Pregnancy complications - post-term; Pregnancy complications - overdue

## References

Sheibani I, Wing DA. Abnormal labor and induction of labor. In: Gabbe SG,
Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem
Pregnancies_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 13.

Thorp JM, Laughon SK. Clinical aspects of normal and abnormal labor. In:
Creasy RK, Resnick R, Iams JD, Lockwood CJ, Moore TR, Greene MF, eds. _Creasy
and Resnik's Maternal-Fetal Medicine: Principles and Practice_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 43.

## Review Date 4/19/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Childbirth Problems

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

