Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001587.htm    
                                Description: Caput succedaneum is swelling of the scalp in a newborn. It is most often brought on by pressure from the uterus or vaginal wall during a head-first (vertex) delivery.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Caput succedaneum

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001587.htm

# Caput succedaneum

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Caput succedaneum is swelling of the scalp in a newborn. It is most often
brought on by pressure from the uterus or vaginal wall during a head-first
(vertex) delivery.

## Causes

A caput succedaneum is more likely to form during a long or hard delivery. It
is more common after the membranes have broken. This is because the fluid in
the amniotic sac is no longer providing a cushion for the baby's head. Vacuum
extraction done during a difficult birth can also increase the chances of a
caput succedaneum.

![Caput succedaneum](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/2925.jpg)

A caput succedaneum may be detected by prenatal ultrasound, even before labor
or delivery begins. It has been found as early as 31 weeks of pregnancy. Very
often, this is due to an early rupture of the membranes or too little amniotic
fluid. It is less likely that a caput will form if the membranes stay intact.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

    * Soft, puffy swelling on the scalp of a newborn infant
    * Possible bruising or color change on the scalp swelling area
    * Swelling that may extend to both sides of the scalp
    * Swelling that is most often seen on the portion of the head which presented first 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will look at the swelling to confirm that it is a
caput succedaneum. No other testing is needed.

## Treatment

No treatment is needed. The problem most often goes away on its own within a
few days.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Complete recovery can be expected. The scalp will go back to a normal shape.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include a yellow color to the skin (jaundice) if bruising is
involved.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Most of the time, the problem is noticed right after birth. You do not need to
call your provider unless you have other questions.

## Alternative Names

Caput

## Images

    * ![Caput succedaneum](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2925t.jpg)Caput succedaneum

## References

Balest AL, Riley MM, Bogen DL. Neonatology. In: Zitelli BJ, McIntire SC,
Nowalk AJ, eds. _Atlas of Pediatric Physical Diagnosis_. 7th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 2.

Mangurten HH, Puppala BI, Prazad PA. Birth injuries. In: Martin RJ, Fanaroff
AA, Walsh MC, eds. _Fanaroff and Martin's Neonatal-Perinatal Medicine._ 10th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 30.

Smith RP. Caput Succedaneum. In: Smith RP, ed. _Netter's Obstetrics and
Gynecology_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 219.

## Review Date 4/4/2019

Updated by: Liora C. Adler, MD, Pediatric Emergency Medicine, Joe DiMaggio
Childrenâs Hospital, Hollywood, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Childbirth
Problems](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChildBirthProblems_thumb.jpg)Childbirth
Problems _Read more_

![Uncommon Infant and Newborn
Problems](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UncommonInfantandNewbornProblems_thumb.jpg)Uncommon
Infant and Newborn Problems _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

