Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000509.htm    
                                Description: In an assisted vaginal delivery, the doctor will use special tools called forceps to help move the baby through the birth canal.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Assisted delivery with forceps

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000509.htm

# Assisted delivery with forceps

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

In an assisted vaginal delivery, the doctor will use special tools called
forceps to help move the baby through the birth canal.

Forceps look like 2 large salad spoons. The doctor uses them to guide the
baby's head out of the birth canal. The mother will push the baby the rest of
the way out.

Another technique your doctor may use to deliver the baby is called vacuum
assisted delivery.

## When is a Forceps Delivery Needed?

Even after your cervix is fully dilated (open) and you have been pushing, you
may still need help getting the baby out. Reasons include:

    * After pushing for several hours, the baby may be close to coming out, but needs help to get through the last part of the birth canal.
    * You may be too tired to push any longer.
    * A medical problem may make it risky for you to push.
    * The baby may be showing signs of stress and need to come out faster than you can push it out on your own 

Before forceps can be used, your baby needs to be far enough down the birth
canal. The baby's head and face must also be in the right position. Your
doctor will check carefully to make sure it is safe to use forceps.

Most women will not need forceps to help them deliver. You may feel tired and
tempted to ask for a little help. But if there is not a true need for assisted
delivery, it is safer for you and your baby to deliver on your own.

## What Will Happen to me During a Forceps-assisted Vaginal Delivery?

You will be given medicine to block pain. This may be an epidural block or a
numbing medicine placed in the vagina.

The forceps will be carefully placed on the baby's head. Then, during a
contraction, you will be asked to push again. At the same time, the doctor
will gently pull to help deliver your baby.

After the doctor delivers the baby's head, you will push the baby the rest of
the way out. After delivery, you can hold your baby on your tummy if he or she
is doing well.

If the forceps do not help move your baby, you may need to have a cesarean
birth (C-section).

## What are the Risks?

Most forceps-assisted vaginal births are safe when they are done correctly by
an experienced doctor. They may decrease the need for a C-section.

However, there are some risks with forceps delivery.

For the mother, they are:

    * More severe tears to the vagina which may require prolonged healing time and (rarely) surgery to correct
    * Problems with urinating or moving your bowels after delivery 

For the baby, the risks are:

    * Bumps, bruises or marks on the baby's head or face. They will heal in a few days or weeks.
    * The head may swell or be cone-shaped. It should return to normal usually within a day or two.
    * The baby's nerves may be injured by pressure from the forceps. The baby's face muscles may droop if the nerves are injured, but they will go back to normal when the nerves heal.
    * The baby may be cut from the forceps and bleed. This rarely happens.
    * There may be bleeding inside the baby's head. This is more serious, but very rare. 

Most of these risks are not severe. When properly used, forceps rarely cause
lasting problems.

## Alternative Names

Pregnancy - forceps; Labor - forceps

## References

Nielsen PE, Deering SH, Galan HL. Operative vaginal delivey. In: Gabbe SG,
Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem
Pregnancies_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 14.

Thorp JM, Laughon SK. Clinical aspects of normal and abnormal labor. In:
Creasy RK, Resnick R, Iams JD, et al, eds. _Creasy and Resnik's Maternal-Fetal
Medicine: Principles and Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2014:chap 43.

## Review Date 4/19/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Childbirth
    * Childbirth Problems

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

