Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000514.htm    
                                Description: During vacuum assisted vaginal delivery, the doctor or midwife will use a vacuum (also called a vacuum extractor) to help move the baby through the birth canal.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Vacuum-assisted delivery

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000514.htm

# Vacuum-assisted delivery

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

During vacuum assisted vaginal delivery, the doctor or midwife will use a
vacuum (also called a vacuum extractor) to help move the baby through the
birth canal.

The vacuum uses a soft plastic cup that attaches to the baby's head with
suction. The doctor or midwife uses a handle on the cup to move the baby
through the birth canal.

## When is Vacuum-assisted Delivery Needed?

Even after your cervix is fully dilated (open) and you have been pushing, you
may need help getting the baby out. Reasons you may need help include:

    * After pushing for several hours, the baby may no longer be moving down through the birth canal.
    * You may be too tired to push any longer.
    * The baby may be showing signs of distress and need to come out faster than you can push it out on your own.
    * A medical problem may make it risky for you to push. 

Before the vacuum can be used, your baby needs to be far enough down the birth
canal. Your doctor will check you carefully to make sure it is safe to use the
vacuum. This device is only safe to use when the baby is very close to being
born. If the head is too high, a cesarean birth (C-section) will be
recommended.

Most women will not need the vacuum to help them deliver. You may feel tired
and tempted to ask for a little help. But if there is no true need for a
vacuum-assisted delivery, it is safer for you and your baby to deliver on your
own.

## What Will Happen During a Vacuum-assisted Vaginal Delivery?

You will be given medicine to block pain. This may be an epidural block or a
numbing medicine placed in the vagina.

The plastic cup will be placed on the baby's head. Then, during a contraction,
you will be asked to push again. At the same time, the doctor or midwife will
gently pull to help deliver your baby.

After the doctor or midwife delivers the baby's head, you will push the baby
the rest of the way out. After delivery, you can hold your baby on your tummy
if they are doing well.

If the vacuum does not help move your baby, you may need to have a C-section.

## What are the Risks?

There are some risks with vacuum-assisted delivery, but it rarely causes
lasting problems when properly used.

For the mother, tears in the vagina or on the perineum are more likely to
occur with a vacuum-assisted birth compared to a vaginal birth that does not
use the vacuum.

For the baby, the risks are mostly about bleeding:

    * There may be bleeding under the baby's scalp. It will go away and does not cause serious problems. Your baby may be more likely to have jaundice (look a little yellow), which may be treated with light therapy.
    * Another type of bleeding occurs underneath the covering of the skull bone. It will go away and does not cause serious problems.
    * Bleeding inside the skull can be very serious, but it is rare. 

## Alternative Names

Pregnancy - vacuum system; Labor - vacuum assisted

## References

Nielsen PE, Deering SH, Galan HL. Operative vaginal delivey. In: Gabbe SG,
Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem
Pregnancies_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 14.

Smith RP. Vacuum-assisted delivery. In: Smith RP, ed. _Netter's Obstetrics and
Gynecology_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 282.

Thorp JM, Laughon SK. Clinical aspects of normal and abnormal labor. In:
Creasy RK, Resnick R, Iams JD, Lockwood CJ, Moore TR, Greene MF, eds. _Creasy
and Resnik's Maternal-Fetal Medicine: Principles and Practice_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 43.

## Review Date 4/19/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Childbirth
    * Childbirth Problems

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

