Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001175.htm    
                                Description: Sheehan syndrome is a condition that can occur in a woman who bleeds severely during childbirth. Sheehan syndrome is a type of hypopituitarism.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Sheehan syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001175.htm

# Sheehan syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Sheehan syndrome is a condition that can occur in a woman who bleeds severely
during childbirth. Sheehan syndrome is a type of hypopituitarism.

## Causes

Severe bleeding during childbirth can cause tissue in the pituitary gland to
die. This gland does not work properly as a result.

The pituitary gland is at the base of the brain. It makes hormones that
stimulate growth, production of breast milk, reproductive functions, the
thyroid, and the adrenal glands. A lack of these hormones can lead to a
variety of symptoms. Conditions that increase the risk of bleeding during
childbirth and Sheehan syndrome include multiple pregnancy (twins or triplets)
and problems with the placenta. The placenta is the organ that develops during
pregnancy to feed the fetus.

It is a rare condition.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of Sheehan syndrome may include:

    * Inability to breastfeed (breast milk never "comes in")
    * Fatigue
    * Lack of menstrual bleeding
    * Loss of pubic and axillary hair
    * Low blood pressure

Note: Other than not being able to breastfeed, symptoms may not develop for
several years after the delivery.

## Exams and Tests

Tests done may include:

    * Blood tests to measure hormone levels
    * MRI of the head to rule out other pituitary problems, such as a tumor

## Treatment

Treatment involves estrogen and progesterone hormone replacement therapy.
These hormones must be taken at least until the normal age of menopause.
Thyroid and adrenal hormones must also be taken. These will be needed for the
rest of your life.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outlook with early diagnosis and treatment is excellent.

## Possible Complications

This condition can be life threatening if not treated.

## Prevention

Severe loss of blood during childbirth can often be prevented by proper
medical care. Otherwise, Sheehan syndrome is not preventable.

## Alternative Names

Postpartum hypopituitarism; Postpartum pituitary insufficiency;
Hypopituitarism syndrome

## Images

    * ![Endocrine glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1093t.jpg)Endocrine glands

## References

Burton GJ, Sibley CP, Jauniaux ERM. Placental anatomy and physiology. In:
Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem
Pregnancies_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 1.

Kaiser U, Ho KKY. Pituitary physiology and diagnostic evaluation. In: Melmed
S, Polonsky KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of
Endocrinology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 8.

Molitch ME. Pituitary and adrenal disorders in pregnancy. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl
JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 43.

Nader S. Other endocrine disorders of pregnancy. In: Resnik R, Lockwood CJ,
Moore TR, Greene MF, Copel JA, Silver RM, eds.Â _Creasy and Resnik's Maternal-
Fetal Medicine: Principles and Practice_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 62.

## Review Date 9/25/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Childbirth
Problems](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChildBirthProblems_thumb.jpg)Childbirth
Problems _Read more_

![Enfermedades de la glÃ¡ndula
pituitaria](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PituitaryDisorders_thumb.jpg)Pituitary
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

