Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001395.htm    
                                Description: The brachial plexus is a group of nerves around shoulder. A loss of movement or weakness of the arm may occur if these nerves are damaged. This injury is called neonatal brachial plexus palsy (NBPP).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Brachial plexus injury in newborns

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001395.htm

# Brachial plexus injury in newborns

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The brachial plexus is a group of nerves around shoulder. A loss of movement
or weakness of the arm may occur if these nerves are damaged. This injury is
called neonatal brachial plexus palsy (NBPP).

## Causes

The nerves of the brachial plexus can be affected by compression inside the
mother's womb andÂ during a difficult delivery. Injury may be caused by:

    * The infant's head and neck pulling toward the side as the shoulders pass through the birth canal
    * Stretching of the infant's shoulders during a head-first delivery
    * Pressure on the baby's raised arms during a breech (feet-first) delivery

There are different forms of NBPP. The type depends on the amount of arm
paralysis:

    * Brachial plexus palsy most often affects only the upper arm. It is also called Duchenne-Erb or Erb-Duchenne paralysis.
    * Klumpke paralysis affects the lower arm and hand. This is less common.

The following factors increase the risk of NBPP:

    * Breech delivery
    * Larger-than-average newborn (such as an infant of a diabetic mother)
    * Difficulty delivering the baby's shoulder after the head has already come out (called shoulder dystocia)

NBPP is less common now that delivery techniques have improved. Cesarean
delivery is used more often when there are concerns about a difficult
delivery. Although a C-section reduces the risk of injury, it does not prevent
it. A C-section also carries other risks.

NBPP may be confused with a condition called pseudoparalysis. This is when the
infant has a fracture and is not moving the arm because of pain, but there is
no nerve damage.

## Symptoms

Symptoms can be seen right away or soon after birth. They may include:

    * No movement in the newborn's upper or lower arm or hand
    * Absent Moro reflex on the affected side
    * Arm extended (straight) at elbow and held against body
    * Decreased grip on the affected sideÂ (depending on the site of injury)

## Exams and Tests

A physical exam most often shows that the infant is not moving the upper or
lower arm or hand. The affected arm may flop when the infant is rolled from
side to side.

The Moro reflex is absent on the side of injury.

The health care provider will examine the collarbone to look for a fracture.
The infant may need to have an x-ray taken of the collarbone.

## Treatment

In mild cases, the provider will suggest:

    * Gentle massage of the arm
    * Range-of-motion exercises

The infant may need to be seen by specialists if the damage is severe or the
condition does not improve in the first few weeks.

Surgery may be considered if strength does not improve by 3 to 9 months of
age.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most babies will fully recover within 3 to 9 months. Those who do not recover
during this time have a poor outlook. In these cases, there may be a
separation of the nerve root from the spinal cord (avulsion).

It is not clear whether surgery to fix the nerve problem can help. Nerve
grafts and nerve transfers can manage NBPP.

In cases of pseudoparalysis, the child will begin to use the affected arm as
the fracture heals. Fractures in infants heal quickly and easily in most
cases.

## Possible Complications

Complications include:

    * Abnormal muscle contractions (contractures) or tightening of the muscles. These may be permanent.
    * Permanent, partial, or total loss of function of the affected nerves, causing paralysis of the arm or arm weakness.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if your newborn shows a lack of movement of either arm.

## Prevention

Taking steps to avoid a difficult delivery, whenever possible, reduces the
risk of NBPP.

## Alternative Names

Klumpke paralysis; Erb-Duchenne paralysis; Erb's palsy; Brachial palsy;
Obstetrical brachial plexus palsy; Birth-related brachial plexus palsy;
Neonatal brachial plexus palsy; NBPP

## References

Cunningham FG, Leveno KJ, Bloom SL, et al. Diseases and injuries of the term
newborn. In: Cunningham FG, Leveno KJ, Bloom SL, et al, eds. _Williams
Obstetrics_. 24th ed. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill Education; 2014:chap 33.

Executive summary: neonatal brachial plexus palsy. Report of the American
College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists' Task Force on neonatal brachial
plexus palsy. _Obstet Gynecol_. 2014;123(4):902-904. PMID: 24785634Â
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24785634.

Mangurten HH, Puppala BI, Prazad PA. Birth injuries. In: Martin RJ, Fanaroff
AA, Walsh MC, eds. _Fanaroff and Martin's Neonatal-Perinatal Medicine_. 10th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 30.

Park TS, Ranalli NJ. Birth brachial plexus injury. In: Winn HR, ed. _Youmans
and Winn Neurological Surgery_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap
228.Â

## Review Date 12/13/2017

Updated by: Kimberly G. Lee, MD, MSc, IBCLC, Associate Professor of
Pediatrics, Division of Neonatology, Medical University of South Carolina,
Charleston, SC. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Arm Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ArmInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Arm
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![Brachial Plexus
Injuries](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BrachialPlexusInjuries_thumb.jpg)Brachial
Plexus Injuries _Read more_

![Childbirth
Problems](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChildBirthProblems_thumb.jpg)Childbirth
Problems _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

