Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001588.htm    
                                Description: A fractured clavicle in the newborn is a broken collar bone in a baby that was just delivered.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Fractured clavicle in the newborn

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001588.htm

# Fractured clavicle in the newborn

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A fractured clavicle in the newborn is a broken collar bone in a baby that was
just delivered.

## Causes

A fracture of a newborn's collar bone (clavicle) can occur during a difficult
vaginal delivery.

## Symptoms

The baby will not move the painful, injured arm. Instead, the baby will hold
it still against the side of the body. Lifting the baby under the arms causes
the child pain. Sometimes, the fracture can be felt with the fingers, but the
problem often can't be seen or felt.

Within a few weeks, a hard lump may develop where the bone is healing. This
lump may be the only sign that the newborn had a broken collar bone.

## Exams and Tests

A chest x-ray will show whether or not there is a broken bone.

## Treatment

Generally, there is no treatment other than lifting the child gently to
prevent discomfort. Occasionally, the arm on the affected side may be
immobilized, most often by simply pinning the sleeve to the clothes.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Full recovery occurs without treatment.

## Possible Complications

Most often, there are no complications. Because infants heal well, it may be
impossible (even by x-ray) to tell that a fracture occurred.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your health care provider if your baby acts
uncomfortable when you lift them.

## Alternative Names

Fractured collar bone - newborn; Broken collar bone - newbornÂ

## Images

    * ![Fractured clavicle \(infant\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9044t.jpg)Fractured clavicle (infant)

## References

Marcdante KJ, Kliegman RM. Assessment of the mother, fetus, and newborn. In:
Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson
Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 58.

Prazad PA, Rajpal MN, Mangurten HH, Puppala BL. Birth injuries. In: Martin RJ,
Fanaroff AA, Walsh MC, eds. _Fanaroff and Martin's Neonatal-Perinatal Medicine
Diseases of the Fetus and Infant_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2020:chap 29.

## Review Date 8/7/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Childbirth
Problems](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChildBirthProblems_thumb.jpg)Childbirth
Problems _Read more_

![Shoulder Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ShoulderInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Shoulder
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

