Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000512.htm    
                                Description: Amniotic fluid is the water that surrounds your baby in the womb. Membranes or layers of tissue hold in this fluid. This membrane is called the amniotic sac.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Premature rupture of membranes

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000512.htm

# Premature rupture of membranes

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Amniotic fluid is the water that surrounds your baby in the womb. Membranes or
layers of tissue hold in this fluid. This membrane is called the amniotic sac.

Often, the membranes rupture (break) during labor. This is often called "when
the water breaks."

Sometimes the membranes break before a woman goes into labor. When the water
breaks early, it is called premature rupture of membranes (PROM). Most women
will go into labor on their own within 24 hours.

If the water breaks before the 37th week of pregnancy, it is called preterm
premature rupture of membranes (PPROM). The earlier your water breaks, the
more serious it is for you and your baby.

## Why Does PROM Happen?

In most cases, the cause of PROM is unknown. Some causes or risk factors may
be:

    * Infections of the uterus, cervix, or vagina
    * Too much stretching of the amniotic sac (this may happen if there is too much fluid, or more than one baby putting pressure on the membranes)
    * Smoking
    * If you have had surgery or biopsies of the cervix
    * If you were pregnant before and had a PROM or PPROM 

Most women whose water breaks before labor do not have a risk factor.

## How do I Know I Have it?

The biggest sign to watch for is fluid leaking from the vagina. It may leak
slowly, or it may gush out. Some of the fluid is lost when the membranes
break. The membranes may continue to leak.

Sometimes when fluid leaks out slowly, women mistake it for urine. If you
notice fluid leaking, use a pad to absorb some of it. Look at it and smell it.
Amniotic fluid usually has no color and does not smell like urine (it has a
much sweeter smell).

If you think your membranes have ruptured, call your health care provider
right away. You will need to be checked as soon as possible.

## What Will Happen?

At the hospital, simple tests can confirm that your membranes have ruptured.
Your provider will check your cervix to see if it has softened and is starting
to dilate (open up).

If your doctor finds that you have PROM, you will need to be in the hospital
until your baby is born.

AFTER 37 WEEKS

If your pregnancy is past 37 weeks, your baby is ready to be born. You will
need to go into labor soon. The longer it takes for labor to start, the
greater your chance of getting an infection.

You can either wait for a short while until you go into labor on your own, or
you can be induced (get medicine to start labor). Women who deliver within 24
hours after their water breaks are less likely to get an infection. So, if
labor is not starting on its own, it can be safer to be induced.

BETWEEN 34 AND 37 WEEKS

If you are between 34 and 37 weeks when your water breaks, your provider will
likely suggest that you be induced.Â It is safer for the baby to be born a few
weeks early than it is for you to risk an infection.

BEFORE 34 WEEKS

If your water breaks before 34 weeks, it is more serious. If there are no
signs of infection, the provider may try to hold off your labor by putting you
on bed rest. Steroid medicines are given to help the baby's lungs grow
quickly. The baby will do better if its lungs have more time to grow before
being born.

You will also receive antibiotics to help prevent infections. You and your
baby will be watched very closely in the hospital. Your provider may do tests
to check your baby's lungs. When the lungs have grown enough, your provider
will induce labor.

## What if I Have to Deliver My Baby Preterm (Early)?

If your water breaks early, your provider will tell you what will be the
safest thing to do. There are some risks to giving birth early, but the
hospital where you deliver will send your baby to the preterm unit (a special
unit for babies born early). If there is not a preterm unit where you deliver,
you and your baby will be moved to a hospital that has one.

## Alternative Names

PROM; PPROM; Pregnancy complications - premature rupture

## References

Mercer BM. Premature rupture of the membranes. In: Creasy RK, Resnick R, Iams
JD, Lockwood CJ, Moore TR, Greene MF, eds. _Creasy and Resnik's Maternal-Fetal
Medicine: Principles and Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2014:chap 42.

Mercer BM. Premature reputure of the membranes. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR,
Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 30.

## Review Date 4/19/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Childbirth
    * Childbirth Problems

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

