Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000900.htm    
                                Description: Placenta previa is a problem of pregnancy in which the placenta grows in the lowest part of the womb (uterus) and covers all or part of the opening to the cervix.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Placenta previa

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000900.htm

# Placenta previa

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Placenta previa is a problem of pregnancy in which the placenta grows in the
lowest part of the womb (uterus) and covers all or part of the opening to the
cervix.

The placenta grows during pregnancy and feeds the developing baby. The cervix
is the opening to the birth canal.

## Causes

During pregnancy, the placenta moves as the womb stretches and grows. It is
very common for the placenta to be low in the womb in early pregnancy. But as
the pregnancy continues, the placenta moves to the top of the womb. By the
third trimester, the placenta should be near the top of the womb, so the
cervix is open for delivery.

Sometimes, the placenta partly or completely covers the cervix. This is called
a previa.

There are different forms of placenta previa:

    * Marginal: The placenta is next to the cervix but does not cover the opening.
    * Partial: The placenta covers part of the cervical opening.
    * Complete: The placenta covers all of the cervical opening. 

Placenta previa occurs in 1 out of 200 pregnancies. It is more common in women
who have:

    * An abnormally shaped uterus
    * Had many pregnancies in the past
    * Had multiple pregnancies, such as twins or triplets
    * Scarring on the lining of the uterus due to a history of surgery, C-section, or abortion
    * In vitro fertilization 

Women who smoke, use cocaine, or have their children at an older age may also
have an increased risk.

## Symptoms

The main symptom of placenta previa is sudden bleeding from the vagina. Some
women also have cramps. The bleeding often starts near the end of the second
trimester or beginning of the third trimester.

Bleeding may be severe and life threatening. It may stop on its own but can
start again days or weeks later.

Labor sometimes starts within several days of the heavy bleeding. Sometimes,
bleeding may not occur until after labor starts.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider can diagnose this condition with a pregnancy
ultrasound.

## Treatment

Your provider will carefully consider the risk of bleeding against early
delivery of your baby. After 36 weeks, delivery of the baby may be the best
treatment.

Nearly all women with placenta previa need a C-section. If the placenta covers
all or part of the cervix, a vaginal delivery can cause severe bleeding. This
can be deadly to both the mother and baby.

If the placenta is near or covering part of the cervix, your provider may
recommend:

    * Reducing your activities
    * Bed rest
    * Pelvic rest, which means no sex, no tampons, and no douching 

Nothing should be placed in the vagina.

You may need to stay in the hospital so your health care team can closely
monitor you and your baby.

Other treatments you may receive:

    * Blood transfusions
    * Medicines to prevent early labor
    * Medicines to help pregnancy continue to at least 36 weeks
    * Shot of special medicine called Rhogam if your blood type is Rh-negative
    * Steroid shots to help the baby's lungs mature 

An emergency C-section may be done if the bleeding is heavy and cannot be
controlled.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The biggest risk is severe bleeding that can be life threatening to the mother
and baby. If you have severe bleeding, your baby may need to be delivered
early, before major organs, such as the lungs, have developed.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have vaginal bleeding during pregnancy. Placenta
previa can be dangerous to both you and your baby.

## Alternative Names

Vaginal bleeding - placenta previa; Pregnancy - placenta previa

## Images

    * ![Cesarean section](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1079t.jpg)Cesarean section
    * ![Ultrasound in pregnancy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1110t.jpg)Ultrasound in pregnancy
    * ![Anatomy of a normal placenta](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17010t.jpg)Anatomy of a normal placenta
    * ![Placenta previa](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17122t.jpg)Placenta previa
    * ![Placenta](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19505t.jpg)Placenta
    * ![Ultrasound, normal fetus - arms and legs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2261t.jpg)Ultrasound, normal fetus - arms and legs
    * ![Ultrasound, normal relaxed placenta](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2262t.jpg)Ultrasound, normal relaxed placenta
    * ![Ultrasound, color - normal umbilical cord](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2265t.jpg)Ultrasound, color - normal umbilical cord
    * ![Placenta](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9980t.jpg)Placenta

## References

Francois KE, Foley MR. Antepartum and postpartum hemorrhage. In: Gabbe SG,
Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem
Pregnancies_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 18.

Hull AD, Resnik R. Placenta previa, placenta accreta, abruptio placentae, and
vasa previa. In: Creasy RK, Resnik R, Iams JD, et al, eds. _Creasy and
Resnik's Maternal-Fetal Medicine: Principles and Practice_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 46.

Salhi BA, Nagrani S. Acute complications of pregnancy. In: Walls RM,
Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and
Clinical Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 178.

## Review Date 4/19/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Childbirth
Problems](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChildBirthProblems_thumb.jpg)Childbirth
Problems _Read more_

![Health Problems in
Pregnancy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HealthConditionsinPregnancy_thumb.jpg)Health
Problems in Pregnancy _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

