Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001309.htm    
                                Description: Graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) is a life-threatening complication that can occur after certain stem cell or bone marrow transplants.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Graft-versus-host disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001309.htm

# Graft-versus-host disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) is a life-threatening complication that can
occur after certain stem cell or bone marrow transplants.

## Causes

GVHD may occur after a bone marrow, or stem cell, transplant in which someone
receives bone marrow tissue or cells from a donor. This type of transplant is
called allogeneic. The new, transplanted cells regard the recipient's body as
foreign. When this happens, the cells attack the recipient's body.

GVHD does not occur when people receive their own cells. This type of
transplant is called autologous.

Before a transplant, tissue and cells from possible donors are checked to see
how closely they match the recipient. GVHD is less likely to occur, or
symptoms will be milder, when the match is close. The chance of GVHD is:

    * Around 35% to 45% when the donor and recipient are related
    * Around 60% to 80% when the donor and recipient are not related 

## Symptoms

There are two types of GVHD: acute and chronic. Symptoms in both acute and
chronic GVHD range from mild to severe.

Acute GVHD usually happens within days or as late as 6 months after a
transplant. The immune system, skin, liver, and intestines are mainly
affected. Common acute symptoms include:

    * Abdominal pain or cramps, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea
    * Jaundice (yellow coloring of the skin or eyes) or other liver problems
    * Skin rash, itching, redness on areas of the skin
    * Increased risk for infections 

Chronic GVHD usually starts more than 3 months after a transplant, and can
last a lifetime. Chronic symptoms may include:

    * Dry eyes, burning sensation, or vision changes
    * Dry mouth, white patches inside the mouth, and sensitivity to spicy foods
    * Fatigue, muscle weakness, and chronic pain
    * Joint pain or stiffness
    * Skin rash with raised, discolored areas, as well as skin tightening or thickening
    * Shortness of breath due to lung damage
    * Vaginal dryness
    * Weight loss
    * Reduced bile flow from the liver
    * Brittle hair and premature graying
    * Damage to sweat glands
    * Cytopenia (decrease in number of mature blood cells)
    * Pericarditis (swelling in the membrane surrounding the heart; causes chest pain) 

## Exams and Tests

Several lab and imaging tests can be done to diagnose and monitor problems
caused by GVHD. These may include:

    * X-ray abdomen
    * CT scan abdomen and CT chest
    * Liver function tests
    * PET scan
    * MRI
    * Capsule endoscopy
    * Liver biopsy

A biopsy of the skin, mucous membranes in the mouth, may also help to confirm
the diagnosis.

## Treatment

After a transplant, the recipient usually takes medicines, such as prednisone
(a steroid), which suppress the immune system. This helps reduce the chances
(or severity) of GVHD.

You'll continue taking the medicines until your health care provider thinks
the risk for GVHD is low. Many of these medicines have side effects, including
kidney and liver damage. You'll have regular tests to watch for these
problems.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Outlook depends on the severity of GVHD. People who receive closely matched
bone marrow tissue and cells usually do better.

Some cases of GVHD can damage the liver, lungs, digestive tract, or other body
organs. There is also a risk for severe infections.

Many cases of acute or chronic GVHD can be treated successfully. But this
doesn't guarantee that the transplant itself will succeed in treating the
original disease.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

If you have had a bone marrow transplant, call your provider right away if you
develop any symptoms of GVHD or other unusual symptoms.

## Alternative Names

GVHD; Bone marrow transplant - graft-versus-host disease; Stem cell transplant
- graft-versus-host disease; Allogeneic transplant - GVHD

## Patient Instructions

    * Bone marrow transplant - discharge

## Images

    * ![Antibodies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9069t.jpg)Antibodies

## References

Elkins M, Davenport R, Mintz PD. Transfusion medicine. In: McPherson RA,
Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory
Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 36.

Keating A, Bishop MR. Hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 178.

Reddy P, Ferrara JLM. Graft-versus-host disease and graft-versus-leukemia
responses. In: Hoffman R, Benz EJ, Silberstein LE, et al, eds. _Hematology:
Basic Principles and Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap
108.

## Review Date 4/11/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bone Marrow
Transplantation](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BoneMarrowTransplantation_thumb.jpg)Bone
Marrow Transplantation _Read more_

![Immune System and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ImmuneSystemandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Immune
System and Disorders _Read more_

![Stem Cells](https://medlineplus.gov/images/StemCells_thumb.jpg)Stem Cells
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

