Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000938.htm    
                                Description: Your child had a bone marrow transplant. It will take 6 to 12 months or more for your child    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bone marrow transplant in children - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000938.htm

# Bone marrow transplant in children - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Your child had a bone marrow transplant. It will take 6 to 12 months or more
for your child's blood counts and immune system to fully recover. During this
time, the risk of infection, bleeding, and skin problems are higher than
before the transplant. Follow instructions from your child's health care
provider on how to care for your child at home.

## What to Expect at Home

Your child's body is still weak. It may take up to a year for your child to
feel like they did before their transplant. Your child will likely get tired
very easily and may also have a poor appetite.

If your child received bone marrow from someone else, signs of graft-versus-
host disease (GVHD). Ask the provider to tell you what signs of GVHD you
should watch for.

## Preventing Infections

Take care that your child does not to get infections for 1 year or more after
the transplant.

    * Keeping your house clean is important to help prevent infection. But do not vacuum or clean while your child is in the room.
    * Keep your child away from crowds.
    * Ask visitors who have a cold to wear a mask, or not to visit.
    * DO NOT let your child play in the yard or handle flowers and plants. 

Make sure your child follows guidelines for safe eating and drinking during
cancer treatment.

    * DO NOT let your child eat or drink anything that may be undercooked or spoiled at home or when eating out. Learn how to cook and store foods safely.
    * Make sure water is safe to drink. 

Make sure your child washes their hands with soap and water often, including:

    * After touching body fluids, such as mucous or blood
    * Before handling food
    * After going to the bathroom
    * After using the telephone
    * After being outdoors 

Ask the doctor what vaccines your child may need and when to get them.

## Oral Care

Your child's immune system is weak. So it is important to take good care of
your child's oral health. This will help prevent infections that can become
serious and spread. Tell your child's dentist that your child has had a bone
marrow transplant. That way you can work together to ensure the best oral care
for your child.

    * Have your child to brush his teeth and gums 2 to 3 times a day for 2 to 3 minutes each time. Use a toothbrush with soft bristles to use. Floss gently once a day.
    * Air dry the toothbrush between brushings.
    * Use toothpaste with fluoride.
    * Have your child rinse their mouth 4 times a day with a salt and baking soda solution. (Mix one half teaspoon, or 2 g, of salt and one half teaspoon, or 2 g, of baking soda in 8 ounces, or 240 mL, of water.)
    * Your child's doctor may prescribe a mouth rinse. Make sure it is alcohol free.
    * Take care of your child's lips with products made with lanolin. Tell the doctor if your child develops new mouth sores or pain.
    * DO NOT let your child eat foods and drinks that have a lot of sugar in them. Give them sugarless gums or sugar-free popsicles or sugar-free hard candies. 

Take care of your child's braces, retainers, or other dental products:

    * Children can continue to wear oral appliances like retainers as long as they fit well.
    * Clean retainers and retainer cases daily with an antibacterial solution. Ask your doctor or dentist to recommend one.
    * If parts of braces irritate your child's gums, use mouth guards or dental wax to protect the delicate mouth tissue. 

## General Care

If your child has a central venous line or PICC line, be sure to learn how to
take care of it.

    * If your child's provider tells you your child's platelet count is low, learn how to prevent bleeding during cancer treatment.
    * Give your child enough protein and calories to keep her weight up.
    * Ask your child's provider about liquid food supplements that can help her get enough calories and nutrients.
    * Protect your child from the sun. Make sure she wears a hat with a wide brim and sunscreen with an SPF of 30 or higher on any exposed skin. 

Take care when your child plays with toys:

    * Make sure that your child only plays with toys that can easily be cleaned. Avoid toys that cannot be washed.
    * Wash dishwasher-safe toys in the dishwasher. Clean other toys in hot, soapy water.
    * DO NOT allow your child to play with toys that other children have put in their mouth.
    * Avoid using bath toys that retain water, like squirt guns or squeezable toys that can draw water inside. 

Be careful with pets and animals:

    * If you have a cat, keep it inside. DO NOT bring in any new pets.
    * Keep all pets away from where your child eats, sleeps, or spends a lot of time, such as a play area.
    * DO NOT let your child play with animals. Scratches and bites can easily get infected.
    * DO NOT let your child come near your cat's litter box.
    * If your child touches a pet, make sure they use an antibacterial soap after handling it. DO NOT let dogs lick your child. 

Resuming schoolwork and returning to school:

    * Most children will need to do schoolwork at home during recovery. Talk with their teacher about how your child can keep up with schoolwork and stay connected with classmates.
    * Your child may be able to receive special help through the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA). Talk with the hospital social worker to find out more.
    * Once your child is ready to return to school, meet with teachers, nurses and other school staff to help them understand your child's medical condition. Arrange any special help or care as needed. 

## Follow-up

Your child will need close follow-up care from the transplant doctor and nurse
for at least 3 months. At first, your child may need to be seen weekly. Be
sure to keep all appointments.

## When to Call the Doctor

If your child tells you about any bad feelings or symptoms, call your child's
health care team. A symptom can be a warning sign of an infection. Watch for
these symptoms:

    * Fever
    * Diarrhea that does not go away or is bloody
    * Severe nausea, vomiting, or loss of appetite
    * Inability to eat or drink
    * Extreme weakness
    * Redness, swelling, or draining from any place where an IV line had been inserted
    * Pain in the abdomen
    * Fever, chills, or sweats, which may be signs of an infection
    * A new skin rash or blisters
    * Jaundice (skin or the white part of the eyes looks yellow)
    * A very bad headache or a headache that does not go away
    * A cough that is getting worse
    * Trouble breathing when at rest or when doing simple tasks
    * Burning when urinating

## Alternative Names

Transplant - bone marrow - children - discharge; Stem cell transplant -
children - discharge; Hematopoietic stem cell transplant - children -
discharge; Reduced intensity, non-myeloablative transplant - children -
discharge; Mini transplant - children - discharge; Allogenic bone marrow
transplant - children - discharge; Autologous bone marrow transplant -
children - discharge; Umbilical cord blood transplant - children - discharge

## References

American Academy of Pediatric Dentistry. Guideline on dental management of
pediatric patients receiving chemotherapy, hematopoietic cell transplantation,
and/or radiation. _Pediatr Dent_. 2013;35(5):E185-E193. PMID: 24290549
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24290549.

Bashir Q, Champlin, R. Hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. In:
Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Doroshow JH, Kastan MB, Tepper JE, eds.
_Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2014:chap 30.

Boyde C, Linden U, Boehm K, Ostermann T. The use of music therapy during the
treatment of cancer patients: a collection of evidence. _Glob Adv Health Med_.
2012;1(5):24-29. PMID: 27257528 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27257528.

National Marrow Donor Program website. Life after transplant.
bethematch.org/patients-and-families/life-after-transplant/. Accessed August
22, 2018.

Velardi A, Locatelli F. Principles and clinical indications of hematopoietic
stem cell transplantation. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF,
eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 135.

## Review Date 7/26/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Bone Marrow Transplantation

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

