Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000839.htm    
                                Description: Bone marrow is the soft, fatty tissue inside your bones. Bone marrow contains stem cells, which are immature cells that become blood cells.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bone marrow (stem cell) donation

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000839.htm

# Bone marrow (stem cell) donation

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Bone marrow is the soft, fatty tissue inside your bones. Bone marrow contains
stem cells, which are immature cells that become blood cells.

People with life-threatening diseases, such as leukemia, lymphoma, and myeloma
can be treated with a bone marrow transplant. This is now often called a stem
cell transplant. For this type of treatment, bone marrow is collected from a
donor. Sometimes, people can donate their own bone marrow.

Bone marrow donation can be done either by collecting a donor's bone marrow
surgically, or by removing stem cells from a donor's blood.

## Types of Bone Marrow Donation

There are two types of bone marrow donation:

    *  **Autologous bone marrow transplant** is when people donate their own bone marrow. "Auto" means self.
    *  **Allogenic bone marrow transplant** is when another person donates bone marrow. "Allo" means other. 

With an allogenic transplant, the donor's genes must at least partly match the
person's genes. A brother or sister is most likely to be a good match.
Sometimes parents, children, and other relatives are good matches. But only
about 30% of people who need a bone marrow transplant can find a matching
donor in their own family.

## Bone Marrow Registries

The 70% of people who do NOT have a relative who is a good match may be able
to find one through a bone marrow registry. The largest one is called Be the
Match (bethematch.org). It registers people who would be willing to donate
bone marrow and stores their information in a database. Doctors can then use
the registry to find a matching donor for a person who needs a bone marrow
transplant.

 **How to Join a Bone Marrow Registry**

To be listed in a bone marrow donation registry, a person must be:

    * Between the ages of 18 and 60
    * Healthy and not pregnant 

People can register online or at a local donor registry drive. Those between
the ages of 45 to 60 must join online. The local, in-person drives only accept
donors who are younger than age 45. Their stem cells are more likely to help
patients than stem cells from older people.

People who register must either:

    * Use a cotton swab to take a sample of cells from the inside of their cheek
    * Give a small blood sample (about 1 tablespoon or 15 milliliters) 

The cells or blood is then tested for special proteins, called human
leukocytes antigens (HLA). HLAs help your infection-fighting system (immune
system) tell the difference between body tissue and substances that are not
from your own body.

## Bone Marrow Matching

Bone marrow transplants work best if the HLAs from the donor and the patient
are a close match. If a donor's HLAs match well with a person who needs a
transplant, the donor must give a new blood sample to confirm the match. Then,
a counselor meets with the donor to discuss the bone marrow donation process.

## What Happens During a Bone Marrow Donation

Donor stem cells can be collected in two ways.

**Peripheral blood stem cell collection.** Most donor stem cells are collected
through a process called leukapheresis.

    * First, the donor is given 5 days of shots to help stem cells move from the bone marrow into the blood.
    * During the collection, blood is removed from the donor through a line in a vein (IV). The part of white blood cells that contains stem cells is then separated in a machine and removed to be later given to the recipient.
    * The red blood cells are returned to the donor through an IV in the other arm. 

This procedure takes about 3 hours. Side effects include:

    * Headaches
    * Sore bones
    * Discomfort from needles in the arms 

**Bone marrow harvest.** This minor surgery is done under general anesthesia.
This means the donor will be asleep and pain-free during the procedure. The
bone marrow is removed from the back of your pelvic bones. The process takes
about an hour.

After a bone marrow harvest, the donor stays in the hospital until they're
fully awake and can eat and drink. Side effects include:

    * Nausea
    * Headache
    * Fatigue
    * Bruising or discomfort in the lower back 

You can resume normal activity in about a week.

There are very few risks for the donor and no lasting health effects. Your
body will replace the donated bone marrow in about 4 to 6 weeks.

## Alternative Names

Stem cell transplant - donation; Allogeneic donation; Leukemia - bone marrow
donation; Lymphoma - bone marrow donation; Myeloma - bone marrow donation

## References

American Cancer Society website. Stem cell transplant for cancer.
www.cancer.org/treatment/treatments-and-side-effects/treatment-types/stem-
cell-transplant.html. Updated May 11, 2016. Accessed August 22, 2018.

Fuchs E. Haploidentical hematopoietic cell transplantation. In: Hoffman R,
Benz EJ, Silberstein LE, et al, eds. _Hematology: Basic Principles and
Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 106.

National Cancer Institute website. Blood-forming stem cell transplants.
www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/types/stem-cell-transplant/stem-cell-
fact-sheet. Updated August 12, 2013. Accessed August 22, 2018.

## Review Date 7/26/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Bone Marrow Transplantation
    * Stem Cells

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

