Link: https://medlineplus.gov/hormonereplacementtherapy.html    
                                Description: Hormone replacement therapy (HRT) can relieve menopause symptoms. Risks include breast cancer and stroke. Certain types of HRT have a higher risk.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Hormone Replacement Therapy

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/hormonereplacementtherapy.html

#  Hormone Replacement Therapy

Also called: ERT, Estrogen replacement therapy, HRT, Menopausal hormone
therapy

On this page

### Basics

  * Summary
  * Start Here
  * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

  * Related Issues
  * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

  * No links available

### Research

  * Statistics and Research
  * Clinical Trials
  * Journal Articles

### Resources

  * Find an Expert

### For You

  * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Menopause is the time in a woman's life when her period stops. It is a normal
part of aging. In the years before and during menopause, the levels of female
hormones can go up and down. This can cause symptoms such as hot flashes,
night sweats, pain during sex, and vaginal dryness. For some women, the
symptoms are mild, and they go away on their own. Other women take hormone
replacement therapy (HRT), also called menopausal hormone therapy, to relieve
these symptoms. HRT may also protect against osteoporosis.

HRT is not for everyone. You should not use HRT if you

  * Think that you are pregnant
  * Have problems with vaginal bleeding
  * Have had certain kinds of cancers
  * Have had a stroke or heart attack
  * Have had blood clots
  * Have liver disease

There are different types of HRT. Some have only one hormone, while others
have two. Most are pills that you take every day, but there are also skin
patches, vaginal creams, gels, and rings.

Taking HRT has some risks. For some women, hormone therapy may increase their
chances of getting blood clots, heart attacks, strokes, breast cancer, and
gallbladder disease. Certain types of HRT have a higher risk, and each woman's
own risks can vary, depending upon her medical history and lifestyle. You and
your health care provider need to discuss the risks and benefits for you. If
you do decide to take HRT, it should be the lowest dose that helps and for the
shortest time needed. You should check if you still need to take HRT every 3-6
months.

Food and Drug Administration

## Start Here

  * Menopause ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (Food and Drug Administration)

## Treatments and Therapies

  * Menopausal Symptoms and Complementary Health Practices ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health)
  * Time to Talk: 4 Things to Know about Menopausal Symptoms and Complementary Health Practices ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health)

## Related Issues

  * Bioidentical Hormones: Are They Safer? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
  * Hormone Replacement Therapy and Your Heart (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
  * Hormone Replacement Therapy: Can It Cause Vaginal Bleeding? (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
  * Menopausal Hormone Therapy and Cancer ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Cancer Institute) Also in Spanish
  * Menopause: Medicines to Help You ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (Food and Drug Administration)
  * What You Should Know about Hormone Therapy Health Risks and Benefits (North American Menopause Society) \- PDF

## Specifics

  * Menopausal Hormone Therapy for the Primary Prevention of Chronic Conditions (U.S. Preventive Services Task Force) \- PDF

## Statistics and Research

  * Menopausal Symptoms and Complementary Health Practices: What the Science Says ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health)

## Clinical Trials

  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Estrogen Replacement Therapy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Hormone Replacement Therapy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

  * Article: Hormone Therapy for Postmenopausal Women.
  * Article: Cognition, Mood and Sleep in Menopausal Transition: The Role of Menopause...
  * Article: Cardiovascular Risk/Benefit Profile of MHT.
  * Hormone Replacement Therapy -- see more articles
  * Estrogen-progestin replacement therapy -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

  * Hormone Health Network
  * National Institute on Aging ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) Also in Spanish
  * womenshealth.gov (Department of Health and Human Services, Office on Women's Health) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

  * Deciding about hormone therapy (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Types of hormone therapy (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Hormone Replacement
Therapy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HormoneReplacementTherapy.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

  * Deciding about hormone therapy
  * Estrogen overdose
  * Types of hormone therapy

## Related Health Topics

  * Menopause

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Hormone Replacement Therapy is
the National Institute on Aging

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 19 December 2019 Topic last reviewed: 19 December 2019

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

