Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001530.htm    
                                Description: Grief is a reaction to a major loss of someone or something. It is most often an unhappy and painful emotion.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Grief

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001530.htm

# Grief

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Grief is a reaction to a major loss of someone or something. It is most often
an unhappy and painful emotion.

## Causes

Grief may be triggered by the death of a loved one. People also can experience
grief if they have an illness for which there is no cure, or a chronic
condition that affects their quality of life. The end of a significant
relationship may also cause grieving.

Everyone feels grief in their own way. But there are common stages to the
process of mourning. It starts with recognizing a loss and continues until a
person eventually accepts that loss.

People's responses to grief will be different, depending on the circumstances
of the death. For example, if the person who died had a chronic illness, the
death may have been expected. The end of the person's suffering might even
have come as a relief. If the death was accidental or violent, coming to a
stage of acceptance might take longer.

## Symptoms

One way to describe grief is in five stages. These reactions might not occur
in a specific order, and can occur together. Not everyone experiences all of
these emotions:

    * Denial, disbelief, numbness
    * Anger, blaming others
    * Bargaining (for instance, "If I am cured of this cancer, I will never smoke again.")
    * Depressed mood, sadness, and crying
    * Acceptance, coming to terms

People who are grieving may have crying spells, trouble sleeping, and lack of
productivity at work.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about your
symptoms, including your sleep and appetite. Symptoms that last for a while
may lead to clinical depression.

## Treatment

Family and friends can offer emotional support during the grieving process.
Sometimes, outside factors can affect the normal grieving process, and people
might need help from:

    * Clergy
    * Mental health specialists
    * Social workers
    * Support groups

The acute phase of grief often lasts up to 2 months. Milder symptoms may last
for a year or longer. Psychological counseling may help a person who is unable
to face the loss (absent grief reaction), or who has depression with grieving.

## Support Groups

Joining a support group where members share common experiences and problems
and help relieve the stress from grieving especially if you have lost a child
or spouse.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

It may take a year or longer to overcome strong feelings of grief and to
accept the loss.

## Possible Complications

Complications that may result from ongoing grief include:

    * Drug or alcohol use
    * Depression

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You can't deal with grief
    * You are using excessive amounts of drugs or alcohol
    * You become very depressed
    * You have long-term depression that interferes with your daily life
    * You have suicidal thoughts

## Prevention

Grief should not be prevented because it is a healthy response to loss.
Instead, it should be respected. Those who are grieving should have support to
help them through the process.

## Alternative Names

Mourning; Grieving; Bereavement

## References

American Psychiatric Association. Trauma- and stressor-related disorders. In:
American Psychiatric Association. _Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental
Disorders_. 5th ed. Arlington, VA: American Psychiatric Publishing.
2013:265-290.

Powell AD. Grief, bereavement, and adjustment disorders. In: Stern TA, Fava M,
Wilens TE, Rosenbaum JF, eds. _Massachusetts General Hospital Comprehensive
Clinical Psychiatry_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 38.

## Review Date 3/26/2018

Updated by: Fred K. Berger, MD, addiction and forensic psychiatrist, Scripps
Memorial Hospital, La Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Bereavement](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Bereavement_thumb.jpg)Bereavement
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

