Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000144.htm    
                                Description: Bronchiectasis is a disease in which the large airways in the lungs are damaged. This causes the airways to become permanently wider.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bronchiectasis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000144.htm

# Bronchiectasis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Bronchiectasis is a disease in which the large airways in the lungs are
damaged. This causes the airways to become permanently wider.

Bronchiectasis can be present at birth or infancy or develop later in life.

## Causes

Bronchiectasis is often caused by inflammation or infection of the airways
that keeps coming back.

Sometimes it begins in childhood after having a severe lungÂ infection or
inhaling a foreign object. Breathing in food particles can also lead to this
condition.

Other causes of bronchiectasis can include:

    * Cystic fibrosis, a disease that causes thick, sticky mucus to build up in the lungs
    * Autoimmune disorders, such as rheumatoid arthritis or SjÃ¶gren syndrome
    * Allergic lung diseases
    * Leukemia and related cancers

## Symptoms

Symptoms develop over time. They may occur months or years after the event
that causes the bronchiectasis.

Long-term (chronic) cough with large amounts of foul smelling sputum is the
main symptom of bronchiectasis. Other symptoms may include:

    * Breath odorÂ 
    * Coughing up bloodÂ (less common in children)
    * Fatigue
    * Paleness
    * Shortness of breath that gets worse with exercise
    * Weight loss
    * Wheezing
    * Low grade fever and night sweats
    * Clubbing of fingers (rare)Â 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. When listening to the
chest with a stethoscope, the provider may hear small clicking, bubbling,
wheezing, rattling, or other sounds, usually in the lower lungs.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Aspergillosis precipitin test (to check for signs of an allergic reaction to fungus)
    * Alpha-1 antitrypsin blood test
    * Chest x-ray
    * Chest CT
    * Sputum culture
    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * Genetic testing, including sweat test for cystic fibrosis and tests for other diseases
    * PPD skin test to check for a past tuberculosis infection
    * Serum immunoglobulin electrophoresisÂ to measure proteins called immunoglobulins in the blood
    * Lung function tests to measure breathing and how well the lungs are functioning

## Treatment

Treatment is aimed at:

    * Controlling infections and sputum
    * Relieving airway blockageÂ 
    * Preventing the problem from becoming worse

Daily drainage to remove sputum is part of treatment. A respiratory therapist
can show the person coughing exercises that will help.

Medicines are often prescribed. These include:

    * Antibiotics to treat infections
    * Bronchodilators to open up airways
    * Expectorants to help loosen and cough up thick sputum

Surgery to remove (resect) the lung may be needed if medicine does not work
and the disease is in a small area, or if the person has a lot of bleeding in
the lungs.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outlook depends on the specific cause of the disease. With treatment, most
people live without major disability.

## Possible Complications

Complications of bronchiectasis may include:

    * Cor pulmonale
    * Coughing up blood
    * Low oxygen levels (in severe cases)
    * Recurrent pneumonia
    * Depression (in rare cases)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * Chest pain or shortness of breath gets worse
    * There is a change in the color or amount of phlegm you cough up, or if it is bloody
    * Other symptoms get worse or do not improve with treatment 

## Prevention

You can reduce your risk by promptly treating lung infections.

Childhood vaccines and a yearly flu vaccine help reduce the chance of some
infections. Avoiding upper respiratory infections, smoking, and pollution may
also reduce your risk of getting this infection.

## Alternative Names

Acquired bronchiectasis; Congenital bronchiectasis; Chronic lung disease -
brochiectasis

## Patient Instructions

    * Lung surgery - discharge 

## Images

    * ![Lungs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1103t.jpg)Lungs
    * ![Respiratory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9248t.jpg)Respiratory system

## References

Chan ED, Iseman MD. Bronchiectasis. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et
al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 48.

Chang AB, Redding GJ. Bronchiectasis and chronic suppurative lung disease. In:
Wilmott RW, Deterding R, Li A, et al. _Kendig's Disorders of the Respiratory
Tract in Children_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 26.

O'Donnell AE. Bronchiectasis, atelectasis, cysts, and localized lung
disorders. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 90.

## Review Date 7/20/2018

Updated by: Allen J. Blaivas, DO, Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care, and
Sleep Medicine, VA New Jersey Health Care System, Clinical Assistant
Professor, Rutgers New Jersey Medical School, East Orange, NJ. Review provided
by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Breathing_thumb.jpg)Breathing Problems
_Read more_

![Bronchial
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BronchialDisorders_thumb.jpg)Bronchial
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

