Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001088.htm    
                                Description: Bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) is a long-term (chronic) lung condition that affects newborn babies who were either put on a breathing machine after birth or were born very early (prematurely).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bronchopulmonary dysplasia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001088.htm

# Bronchopulmonary dysplasia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) is a long-term (chronic) lung condition that
affects newborn babies who were either put on a breathing machine after birth
or were born very early (prematurely).

## Causes

BPD occurs in very ill infants who received high levels of oxygen for a long
period. BPD can also occur in infants who were on a breathing machine
(ventilator).

BPD is more common in infants born early (prematurely), whose lungs were not
fully developed at birth.

Risk factors include:

    * Congenital heart diseaseÂ (problem with the heart's structure and function that is present at birth)
    * Prematurity, usually in infants born before 32 weeks gestation
    * Severe respiratory or lung infection 

Risk of severe BPD has decreased in recent years.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

    * Bluish skin color (cyanosis)
    * Cough
    * Rapid breathing
    * Shortness of breath

## Exams and Tests

Tests that may be done to help diagnose BPD include:

    * Arterial blood gas
    * Chest CT scan
    * Chest x-ray
    * Pulse oximetry

## Treatment

IN THE HOSPITAL

Infants who have breathing problems are often put on a ventilator. This is a
breathing machine that sends pressure to the baby's lungs to keep them
inflated and to deliver more oxygen. As the baby's lungs develop, the pressure
and oxygen are slowly reduced. The baby is weaned from the ventilator. The
baby may continue to get oxygen by a mask or nasal tube for several weeks or
months.

Infants with BPD are usually fed by tubes inserted into the stomach (NG tube).
These babies need extra calories due to the effort of breathing. To keep their
lungs from filling with fluid, their fluid intake may need to be limited. They
may also be given medicines (diuretics) that remove water from the body. Other
medicines can include corticosteroids, bronchodilators, and surfactant.
Surfactant is a slippery, soapy-like substance in the lungs that helps the
lungs fill with air and keeps the air sacs from deflating.

Parents of these infants need emotional support. This is because BPD takes
time to get better and the infant may need to stay in the hospital for a long
time.

AT HOME

Infants with BPD may need oxygen therapy for weeks to months after leaving the
hospital. Follow your health care provider's instructions to ensure your baby
gets enough nutrition during recovery. Your baby may need tube feedings or
special formulas.

It is very important to prevent your baby from getting colds and other
infections, such as respiratory syncytial virus (RSV). RSV can cause a severe
lung infection, especially in a baby with BPD.

A simple way to help prevent RSV infection is to wash your hands often. Follow
these measures:

    * Wash your hands with warm water and soap before touching your baby. Tell others to wash their hands, too, before touching your baby.
    * Ask others to avoid contact with your baby if they have a cold or fever, or ask them to wear a mask.
    * Be aware that kissing your baby can spread RSV.
    * Try to keep young children away from your baby. RSV is very common among young children and spreads easily from child-to-child.
    * DO NOT smoke inside your house, car, or anywhere near your baby. Exposure to tobacco smoke increases the risk of RSV illness. 

Parents of babies with BPD should avoid crowds during outbreaks of RSV.
Outbreaks are often reported by local news media.

Your baby's provider may prescribe the medicine palivizumab (Synagis) to
prevent RSV infection in your baby. Follow instructions on how to give your
baby this medicine.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Babies with BPD get better slowly over time. Oxygen therapy may be needed for
many months. Some infants have long-term lung damage and require oxygen and
breathing support, such as with a ventilator. Some infants with this condition
may not survive.

## Possible Complications

Babies who have had BPD are at greater risk for repeated respiratory
infections, such as pneumonia, bronchiolitis, and RSV that require a hospital
stay.

Other possible complications in babies who have had BPD are:

    * Developmental problems
    * Poor growth
    * Pulmonary hypertension (high blood pressure in the arteries of the lungs)
    * Long-term lung and breathing problems such as scarring or bronchiectasis 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

If your baby had BPD, watch for any breathing problems. Call your child's
provider if you see any signs of a respiratory infection.

## Prevention

To help prevent BPD:

    * Prevent premature delivery whenever possible. If you are pregnant or thinking about getting pregnant, get prenatal care to help keep you and your baby healthy.
    * If your baby is on breathing support, ask the provider how soon your baby can be weaned from the ventilator.
    * Your baby may receive surfactant to help keep the lungs open.

## Alternative Names

BPD; Chronic lung disease - children; CLD - children

## References

Kamath-Rayne BD, Jobe AH. Fetal lung development and surfactant. In: Resnik R,
Lockwood CJ, Moore TR, Greene MF, Copel JA, Silver RM, eds. _Creasy and
Resnik's Maternal-Fetal Medicine: Principles and Practice_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 16.

McGrath-Morrow SA, Collaco JM. Bronchopulmonary dysplasia. In: Kliegman RM,
St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 444.

Roosevelt GE. Pediatric respiratory emergencies: diseases of the lungs. In:
Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine:
Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap
169.

## Review Date 5/16/2019

Updated by: Denis Hadjiliadis, MD, MHS, Paul F. Harron, Jr. Associate
Professor of Medicine, Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care, Perelman School
of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bronchial
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BronchialDisorders_thumb.jpg)Bronchial
Disorders _Read more_

![Premature
Babies](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PrematureBabies_thumb.jpg)Premature
Babies _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

