Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000007.htm    
                                Description: Your child has bronchiolitis, which causes swelling and mucus to build up in the smallest air passages of the lungs.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bronchiolitis - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000007.htm

# Bronchiolitis - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Your child has bronchiolitis, which causes swelling and mucus to build up in
the smallest air passages of the lungs.

Now that your child is going home from the hospital, follow the health care
provider's instructions on how to care for your child. Use the information
below as a reminder.

## When You're in the Hospital

In the hospital, the provider helped your child breathe better. They also made
sure your child received enough fluids.

## What to Expect at Home

Your child will likely still have symptoms of bronchiolitis after leaving the
hospital.

    * Wheezing may last for up to 5 days.
    * Coughing and stuffy nose will slowly get better over 7 to 14 days.
    * Sleeping and eating may take up to 1 week to return to normal.
    * You may need to take time off work to care for your child. 

## Home Care

Breathing moist (wet) air helps loosen the sticky mucus that may be choking
your child. You can use a humidifier to make the air moist. Follow the
directions that came with the humidifier.

DO NOT use steam vaporizers because they can cause burns. Use cool mist
humidifiers instead.

If your child's nose is stuffy, your child will not be able to drink or sleep
easily. You can use warm tap water or saline nose drops to loosen the mucus.
Both of these work better than any medicine you can buy.

    * Place 3 drops of warm water or saline in each nostril.
    * Wait 10 seconds, then use a soft rubber suction bulb to suck out the mucus from each nostril.
    * Repeat several times until your child is able to breathe through the nose quietly and easily. 

Before anyone touches your child, they must wash their hands with warm water
and soap or use an alcohol-based hand cleanser before doing so. Try to keep
other children away from your child.

DO NOT let anyone smoke in the house, car, or anywhere near your child.

## Eating and Drinking

It is very important for your child to drink enough fluids.

    * Offer breast milk or formula if your child is younger than 12 months.
    * Offer regular milk if your child is older than 12 months. 

Eating or drinking may make your child tired. Feed small amounts, but more
often than usual.

If your child throws up because of coughing, wait a few minutes and try to
feed your child again.

## Medicines

Some asthma medicines help children with bronchiolitis. Your provider may
prescribe such medicines for your child.

DO NOT give your child decongestant nose drops, antihistamines, or any other
cold medicines unless your child's provider tells you to.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call the doctor right away if your child has any of the following:

    * Hard time breathing
    * Chest muscles are pulling in with each breath
    * Breathing faster than 50 to 60 breaths per minute (when not crying)
    * Making a grunting noise
    * Sitting with shoulders hunched over
    * Wheezing becomes more intense
    * Skin, nails, gums, lips, or area around the eyes is bluish or grayish
    * Extremely tired
    * Not moving around very much
    * Limp or floppy body
    * Nostrils are flaring out when breathing 

## Alternative Names

RSV bronchiolitis - discharge; Respiratory syncytial virus bronchiolitis -
discharge

## Images

    * ![Bronchiolitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17098t.jpg)Bronchiolitis

## References

Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF. Wheezing, bronchiolitis, and
bronchitis. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson
Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 391.

Singer JP, Jones K, Lazarus SC. Bronchiolitis and other intrathoracic airway
disorders. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and
Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 50.

## Read More

    * Bronchiolitis
    * Community-acquired pneumonia in adults
    * Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV)

## Patient Instructions

    * Asthma - control drugs
    * Asthma - quick-relief drugs 
    * How to use a nebulizer
    * How to use your peak flow meter
    * Oxygen safety
    * Postural drainage 
    * Traveling with breathing problems
    * Using oxygen at home
    * Using oxygen at home - what to ask your doctor 

## Review Date 5/20/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Bronchial Disorders

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

