Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003400.htm    
                                Description: The measurement of body temperature can help detect illness. It can also monitor whether or not treatment is working. A high temperature is a fever.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Temperature measurement

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003400.htm

# Temperature measurement

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The measurement of body temperature can help detect illness. It can also
monitor whether or not treatment is working. A high temperature is a fever.

## How the Test is Performed

The American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) recommends not to use glass
thermometers with mercury. The glass can break, and mercury is a poison.

Electronic thermometers are most often suggested. An easy-to-read panel shows
the temperature. The probe can be placed in the mouth, rectum, or armpit.

    * Mouth: Place the probe under the tongue and close the mouth. Breathe through the nose. Use the lips to hold the thermometer tightly in place. Leave the thermometer in the mouth for 3 minutes or until the device beeps.
    * Rectum: This method is for infants and small children. They cannot hold a thermometer safely in their mouth. Place petroleum jelly on the bulb of a rectal thermometer. Place the child face down on a flat surface or lap. Spread the buttocks and insert the bulb end about 1/2 to 1 inch (1 to 2.5 centimeters) into the anal canal. Be careful not to insert it too far. Struggling can push the thermometer in further. Remove after 3 minutes or when the device beeps.
    * Armpit: Place the thermometer in the armpit. Press the arm against the body. Wait for 5 minutes before reading. 

Plastic strip thermometers change color to show the temperature. This method
is the least accurate.

    * Place the strip on the forehead. Read it after 1 minute while the strip is in place.
    * Plastic strip thermometers for the mouth are also available. 

Electronic ear thermometers are common. They are easy to use. However, some
users report that the results are less accurate than with probe thermometers.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Always clean the thermometer before and after using. You can use cool, soapy
water or rubbing alcohol.

Wait at least 1 hour after heavy exercise or a hot bath before measuring body
temperature. Wait for 20 to 30 minutes after smoking, eating, or drinking a
hot or cold liquid.

## Normal Results

The average normal body temperature is 98.6Â°F (37Â°C). The normal temperature
can vary due to:

    * Age (in children over 6 months, daily temperature can vary by 1 to 2 degrees)
    * Person
    * Time of day (often highest in the evening)
    * Which type of measurement was taken (oral, rectal, forehead, or armpit) 

You need to have an accurate temperature measurement to determine if a fever
is present. Be sure to tell your health care provider which type of
temperature measurement you used when discussing a fever.

The exact relationship between different types of temperature measurement is
unclear. However, the following general guidelines for temperature results are
used:

The average normal oral temperature is 98.6Â°F (37Â°C).

    * A rectal temperature is 0.5Â°F (0.3Â°C) to 1Â°F (0.6Â°C) higher than an oral temperature.
    * An ear temperature is 0.5Â°F (0.3Â°C) to 1Â°F (0.6Â°C) higher than an oral temperature.
    * An armpit temperature is most often 0.5Â°F (0.3Â°C) to 1Â°F (0.6Â°C) lower than an oral temperature.
    * A forehead scanner is most often 0.5Â°F (0.3Â°C) to 1Â°F (0.6Â°C) lower than an oral temperature. 

Other factors to take into account are:

    * In general, rectal temperatures are considered to be more accurate when checking for fever in a young child.
    * Plastic strip thermometers measure skin temperature, not body temperature. They are not recommended for general home use. 

## What Abnormal Results Mean

If the reading on the thermometer is more than 1 to 1.5 degrees above your
normal temperature, you have a fever. Fevers may be a sign of:

    * Blood clots
    * Cancer
    * Certain types of arthritis, such as rheumatoid arthritis or lupus
    * Diseases in the intestines, such as Crohn disease or ulcerative colitis
    * Infection (both serious and non-serious)
    * Many other medical problems

Body temperature can also be raised by:

    * Being active
    * Being in a high temperature or high humidity
    * Eating
    * Feeling strong emotions
    * Menstruating
    * Taking certain medicines
    * Teething (in a young child -- but no higher than 100Â°F [37.7Â°C])
    * Wearing heavy clothing

Body temperature that is too high or too low can be serious. Call your
provider if this is the case.

Related topics include:

    * How to treat a fever, such as in infants
    * When to call a provider for a fever

## Images

    * ![Temperature measurement](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9961t.jpg)Temperature measurement

## References

AAP News and Journal Gateway website. Sullivan JE, Farrar HC. Fever and
antipyretic use in children. pediatrics.aappublications.org/content/127/3/580.
Accessed January 14, 2018.

Gorgas DL, McGrath JL. Vital signs measurement. In: Roberts JR, ed. _Roberts
and Hedges' Clinical Procedures in Emergency Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 1.

Nield LS, Kamat D. Fever. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF,
eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 176.

Sajadi MM, Mackowiak PA. Temperature regulation and the pathogenesis of fever.
In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's
Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 55.

## Review Date 1/14/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Fever](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Fever_thumb.jpg)Fever _Read more_

![Vital Signs](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VitalSigns_thumb.jpg)Vital Signs
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

