Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000228.htm    
                                Description: Pressure ulcers are also called bedsores, or pressure sores. They can form when your skin and soft tissue press against a harder surface, such as a chair or bed for a prolonged time. This pressure reduces    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pressure ulcers - what to ask your doctor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000228.htm

# Pressure ulcers - what to ask your doctor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pressure ulcers are also called bedsores, or pressure sores. They can form
when your skin and soft tissue press against a harder surface, such as a chair
or bed for a prolonged time. This pressure reduces the blood supply to that
area. Lack of blood supply can cause the skin tissue in this area to become
damaged or die. When this happens, a pressure ulcer may form.

Below are some questions you may want to ask your health care provider to help
you or the person taking care of you to prevent and take care of pressure
ulcers.

## Questions

Which parts of the body are more likely to get pressure sores?

    * How often do these areas need to be looked at?
    * What are the signs that a pressure ulcer is beginning to form? 

What is the best way to take care of my skin every day?

    * What types of lotions, creams, ointments, and powders are best to use?
    * What type of clothing is best to wear? 

What type of diet is best to prevent pressure ulcers or to help them heal?

When lying in bed:

    * What positions are best when lying down?
    * What types of padding or cushioning should I use?
    * Should I use special mattresses or mattress covers? Sheets? Pajamas or other clothing?
    * How often should I change my position?
    * What is the best way to move or be moved around while I am in bed?
    * What is the best way to transfer from bed to a wheelchair or chair? 

If there is leakage of stool or urine, what else should be done to prevent
pressure ulcers?

What is best way to keep areas dry?

If using a wheelchair:

    * How often should someone make sure the wheelchair is the right size?
    * What type of cushions should I use?
    * What is the best way to transfer into and out of the wheelchair?
    * How often should I change position? 

If a pressure ulcer or sore is present:

    * What type of dressing should I use?
    * How often does the dressing need to be changed?
    * What are the signs that the ulcer is getting worse or is infected? 

When should the provider be called?

What are the common signs of infection?

## Alternative Names

What to ask your doctor about pressure ulcers; Bedsores - what to ask your
doctor

## Images

    * ![Areas where bedsores occur](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19091t.jpg)Areas where bedsores occur

## References

James WD, Berger TG, Elston DM. Dermatoses resulting from physical factors.
In: James WD, Berger TG, Elston DM, eds. _Andrews' Diseases of the Skin:
Clinical Dermatology_. 12th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 3.

Marston WA. Wound care. In: Sidawy AN, Perler BA, eds. _Rutherford's Vascular
Surgery and Endovascular Therapy_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 115.

Qaseem A, Humphrey LL, Forciea MA, Starkey M, Denberg TD; Clinical Guidelines
Committee of the American College of Physicians. Treatment of pressure ulcers:
a clinical practice guideline from the American College of Physicians. _Ann
Intern Med_. 2015;162(5):370-379. PMID: 25732279
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25732279.

## Patient Instructions

    * Multiple sclerosis - discharge
    * Preventing pressure ulcers
    * Stroke - discharge 

## Review Date 5/24/2018

Updated by: Kevin Berman, MD, PhD, Atlanta Center for Dermatologic Disease,
Atlanta, GA. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Pressure Sores

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

