Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002963.htm    
                                Description: A bone graft is surgery to place new bone or bone substitutes into spaces around a broken bone or bone defects.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bone graft

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002963.htm

# Bone graft

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A bone graft is surgery to place new bone or bone substitutes into spaces
around a broken bone or bone defects.

## Description

A bone graft can be taken from the person's own healthy bone (this is called
an autograft). Or, it can be taken from frozen, donated bone (allograft). In
some cases, a manmade (synthetic) bone substitute is used.

You will be asleep and feel no pain (general anesthesia).

During surgery, the surgeon makes a cut over the bone defect. The bone graft
can be taken from areas close to the bone defect or more commonly from the
pelvis. The bone graft is shaped and inserted into and around the area. The
bone graft can be held in place with pins, plates, or screws.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Bone grafts are used to:

    * Fuse joints to prevent movement
    * Repair broken bones (fractures) that have bone loss
    * Repair injured bone that has not healed

## Risks

Risks of anesthesia and surgery in general include:

    * Reactions to medicines, breathing problems
    * Bleeding, blood clots, infection

Risks of this surgery include:

    * Pain at the place on the body where the bone was removed
    * Injury of nerves near the bone grafting area
    * Stiffness of the area

## Before the Procedure

Tell your surgeon what medicines you are taking. This includes medicines,
supplements, or herbs you bought without a prescription.

Follow instructions about stopping blood thinners, such as warfarin
(Coumadin), dabigatran (Pradaxa), rivaroxaban (Xarelto), or NSAIDs such as
aspirin. These might cause increased bleeding during the surgery.

On the day of the surgery:

    * Follow instructions about not eating or drinking anything before surgery.
    * Take the medicines your provider told you to take with a small sip of water.
    * If you are going to the hospital from home, be sure to arrive at the scheduled time.

## After the Procedure

Recovery time depends on the injury or defect being treated and the size of
the bone graft. Your recovery may take 2 weeks to 3 months. The bone graft
itself will take up to 3 months or longer to heal.

You may be told to avoid extreme exercise for up to 6 months. Ask your
provider or nurse what you can and cannot safely do.

You will need to keep the bone graft area clean and dry. Follow instructions
about showering.

DO NOT smoke. Smoking slows or prevents bone healing. If you smoke, the graft
is more likely to fail. Be aware that nicotine patches slow healing just like
smoking does.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most bone grafts help the bone defect heal with little risk of graft
rejection.

## Alternative Names

Autograft - bone; Allograft - bone; Fracture - bone graft; Surgery - bone
graft; Autologous bone graft

## Images

    * ![Spinal bone graft - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/14072t.jpg)Spinal bone graft - series
    * ![Bone graft harvest](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8745t.jpg)Bone graft harvest

## References

Brinker MR, O'Connor DP. Nonunions: evaluation and treatment. In: Browner BD,
Jupiter JB, Krettek C, Anderson PA, eds. _Skeletal Trauma: Basic Science,
Management, and Reconstruction_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 25.

Seitz IA, Teven CM, Reid RR. Repair and grafting of bone. In: Gurtner GC,
Neligan PC, eds. _Plastic Surgery, Volume 1: Principles_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 18.

## Review Date 8/15/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bone Grafts](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BoneGrafts_thumb.jpg)Bone Grafts
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

