Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/respiratory-syncytial-virus-rsv-tests/    
                                Description: RSV is a respiratory infection that can be especially dangerous to babies and the elderly. RSV testing is used to diagnose the infection. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV) Tests

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/respiratory-syncytial-
virus-rsv-tests/

# Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV) Tests

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is an RSV test?

RSV, which stands for respiratory syncytial virus, is an infection that
affects the respiratory tract. Your respiratory tract includes your lungs,
nose, and throat. RSV is very contagious, which means it spreads easily from
person to person. It's also very common. Most children get RSV by the age of
2. RSV usually causes mild, cold-like symptoms. But the virus may lead to
serious breathing problems, especially in young babies, the elderly, and
people with weakened immune systems. RSV testing checks for the virus that
causes an RSV infection.

Other names: respiratory syncytial antibody test, RSV rapid detection

## What is it used for?

An RSV test is most often used to check for infections in infants, the
elderly, and people with weakened immune systems. The test is usually done
during the "RSV season," the time of year when RSV outbreaks are more common.
In the United States, RSV season usually starts in mid-fall and ends in early
spring.

## Why do I need an RSV test?

Adults and older children usually don't need RSV testing. Most RSV infections
only cause mild symptoms such as a runny nose, sneezing, and headaches. But an
infant, younger child, or an elderly adult may need an RSV test if he or she
has serious symptoms of infection. These include:

    * Fever
    * Wheezing
    * Severe coughing
    * Breathing faster than normal, especially in infants
    * Trouble breathing
    * Skin that turns blue

## What happens during an RSV test?

There are a few different types of RSV testing:

    * **Nasal aspirate.** A health care provider will inject a saline solution into the nose, then remove the sample with gentle suction.
    * **Swab test.** A health care provider will use a special swab to take a sample from the nose or throat.
    * **A blood test.** During a blood test, a health care professional will take a blood sample from a vein in the arm, using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a small amount of blood will be collected into a test tube or vial. This usually takes less than five minutes.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You don't need any special preparations for an RSV test.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to RSV testing.

    * The nasal aspirate may feel uncomfortable. These effects are temporary.
    * For a swab test, there may be a little gagging or discomfort when the throat or nose is swabbed.
    * For a blood test, there may be slight pain or bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away quickly.

## What do the results mean?

A negative result means there is no RSV infection and the symptoms are likely
caused by another type of virus. A positive result means there is an RSV
infection. Infants, young children, and elderly adults with serious RSV
symptoms may have to be treated in the hospital. Treatment may include oxygen
and intravenous fluids (fluids delivered directly to the veins). In rare
cases, a breathing machine called a ventilator may be needed.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about an RSV test?

If you have RSV symptoms, but are otherwise in good health, your health care
provider probably won't order RSV testing. Most healthy adults and children
with RSV will get better in 1-2 weeks. Your provider may recommend over-the-
counter medicines to relieve your symptoms.

## References

    1. American Academy of Pediatrics [Internet]. Elk Grove Village (IL): American Academy of Pediatrics; c2017. RSV Infection [cited 2017 Nov 13]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.aap.org/en-us/about-the-aap/aap-press-room/aap-press-room-media-center/Pages/RSV-Infection.aspx
    2. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Respiratory Syncytial Virus Infection (RSV) [updated 2017 Mar 7; cited 2017 Nov 13]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/rsv/index.html
    3. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Respiratory Syncytial Virus Infection (RSV): For Healthcare Professionals [updated 2017 Aug 24; cited 2017 Nov 13]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/rsv/clinical/index.html
    4. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Respiratory Syncytial Virus Infection (RSV): Symptoms and Care [updated 2017 Mar 7; cited 2017 Nov 13]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/rsv/about/symptoms.html
    5. Hinkle J, Cheever K. Brunner & Suddarth's Handbook of Laboratory and Diagnostic Tests. 2nd Ed, Kindle. Philadelphia: Wolters Kluwer Health, Lippincott Williams & Wilkins; c2014. Respiratory Syncytial Virus Antibodies; 457 p.
    6. HealthyChildren.org [Internet]. Elk Grove Village (IL): American Academy of Pediatrics; c2017. Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV) [updated 2015 Nov 21; cited 2017 Nov 13]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.healthychildren.org/English/health-issues/conditions/chest-lungs/Pages/Respiratory-Syncytial-Virus-RSV.aspx
    7. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. RSV Testing: The Test [updated 2016 Nov 21; cited 2017 Nov 13]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/rsv/tab/test
    8. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. RSV Testing: The Test Sample [updated 2016 Nov 21; cited 2017 Nov 13]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/rsv/tab/sample
    9. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2017. Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV): Diagnosis and Treatment; 2017 July 22 [cited Nov 13]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/respiratory-syncytial-virus/diagnosis-treatment/drc-20353104
    10. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2017. Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV): Overview; 2017 July 22 [cited Nov 13]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/respiratory-syncytial-virus/symptoms-causes/syc-20353098
    11. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co. Inc.; c2017. Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV) Infection and Human Metapneumovirus Infection [cited 2017 Nov 13]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: http://www.merckmanuals.com/home/children-s-health-issues/viral-infections-in-infants-and-children/respiratory-syncytial-virus-rsv-infection-and-human-metapneumovirus-infection
    12. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms: respiratory tract [cited 2017 Nov 13]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/publications/dictionaries/cancer-terms?cdrid=44490
    13. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What Are the Risks of Blood Tests? [updated 2012 Jan 6; cited 2017 Nov 13]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health/health-topics/topics/bdt/risks
    14. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What To Expect with Blood Tests [updated 2012 Jan 6; cited 2017 Nov 13]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health/health-topics/topics/bdt/with
    15. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. University of Florida; c2017. RSV antibody test: Overview [updated 2017 Nov 13; cited 2017 Nov 13]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/rsv-antibody-test
    16. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. University of Florida; c2017. Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV): Overview [updated 2017 Nov 13; cited 2017 Nov 13]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/respiratory-syncytial-virus-rsv
    17. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2017. Health Encyclopedia: Rapid Detection of Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV) [cited 2017 Nov 13]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid;=rapid_rsv
    18. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2017. Health Encyclopedia: Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV) in Children [cited 2017 Nov 13]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=90&contentid;=P02409
    19. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2017. Health Information: Health Facts for You: Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV) [updated 2015 Mar 10; cited 2017 Nov 13]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/healthfacts/respiratory/4319.html

## Related Health Topics

    * Breathing Problems
    * Common Cold
    * Respiratory Syncytial Virus Infections
    * Viral Infections

## Related Lab Test Information

    * How to Understand Your Lab Results

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 26 February 2020 Page last reviewed: 12 March 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

