Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003747.htm    
                                Description: Nasopharyngeal culture is a test that examines a sample of secretions from the uppermost part of the throat, behind the nose, to detect organisms that can cause disease.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Nasopharyngeal culture

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003747.htm

# Nasopharyngeal culture

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Nasopharyngeal culture is a test that examines a sample of secretions from the
uppermost part of the throat, behind the nose, to detect organisms that can
cause disease.

## How the Test is Performed

You will be asked to cough before the test begins and then tilt your head
back. A sterile cotton-tipped swab is gently passed through a nostril and into
the nasopharynx. This is the part of the pharynx that covers the roof of the
mouth. The swab is quickly rotated and removed. The sample is sent to a
laboratory. There, it is placed in a special dish (culture). It is then
watched to see if bacteria or other disease-causing organisms grow.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is needed.

## How the Test will Feel

You may have slight discomfort and may gag.

## Why the Test is Performed

The test identifies viruses and bacteria that cause upper respiratory tract
symptoms. These include:

    *  _Bordetella pertussis_ , the bacteria that cause whooping cough
    *  _Neisseria meningitidis_ , the bacteria that cause meningococcal meningitis
    *  _Staphylococcus aureus_ , the bacteria that cause staph infections
    * Methicillin-resistant _Staphylococcus aureus_
    * Viral infections such as influenza or respiratory syncytial virus

The culture may be used to help determine which antibiotic is appropriate to
treat an infection due to bacteria.

## Normal Results

The presence of organisms commonly found in the nasopharynx is normal.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

The presence of any disease-causing virus, bacteria, or fungus means these
organisms may be causing your infection.

Sometimes, organisms like _Staphylococcus aureus_ can be present without
causing disease. This test can help identify resistant strains of this
organism (methicillin-resistant _Staphylococcus aureus_ , or MRSA) so that
people can be isolated when necessary.

## Risks

There are no risks with this test.

## Alternative Names

Culture - nasopharyngeal; Swab for respiratory viruses; Swab for staph
carriage

## Images

    * ![Nasopharyngeal culture](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9687t.jpg)Nasopharyngeal culture

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Culture, routine. In: Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds.
_Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier
Saunders; 2013:409-411.

Murray PR. The clinician and the microbiology laboratory. In: Bennett JE,
Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and
Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 16.

## Review Date 10/23/2017

Updated by: Denis Hadjiliadis, MD, MHS, Paul F. Harron, Jr. Associate
Professor of Medicine, Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care, Perelman School
of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Respiratory Syncytial Virus
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/RespiratorySyncytialVirusInfections_thumb.jpg)Respiratory
Syncytial Virus Infections _Read more_

![Staphylococcal
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/StaphylococcalInfections_thumb.jpg)Staphylococcal
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

