Link: https://medlineplus.gov/diabetesandpregnancy.html    
                                Description: Gestational Diabetes is diabetes developed during pregnancy. Women with Gestational Diabetes are at risk for developing Type 2 Diabetes later in life.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Diabetes and Pregnancy

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/diabetesandpregnancy.html

#  Diabetes and Pregnancy

Also called: Gestational diabetes

On this page

### Basics

  * Summary
  * Start Here
  * Diagnosis and Tests
  * Prevention and Risk Factors
  * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

  * Living With
  * Related Issues
  * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

  * No links available

### Research

  * Statistics and Research
  * Clinical Trials
  * Journal Articles

### Resources

  * Find an Expert

### For You

  * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Diabetes is a disease in which your blood glucose, or blood sugar, levels are
too high. When you are pregnant, high blood sugar levels are not good for your
baby.

About seven out of every 100 pregnant women in the United States get
gestational diabetes. Gestational diabetes is diabetes that happens for the
first time when a woman is pregnant. Most of the time, it goes away after you
have your baby. But it does increase your risk for developing type 2 diabetes
later on. Your child is also at risk for obesity and type 2 diabetes.

Most women get a test to check for diabetes during their second trimester of
pregnancy. Women at higher risk may get a test earlier.

If you already have diabetes, the best time to control your blood sugar is
before you get pregnant. High blood sugar levels can be harmful to your baby
during the first weeks of pregnancy - even before you know you are pregnant.
To keep you and your baby healthy, it is important to keep your blood sugar as
close to normal as possible before and during pregnancy.

Either type of diabetes during pregnancy increases the chances of problems for
you and your baby. To help lower the chances talk to your health care team
about

  * A meal plan for your pregnancy
  * A safe exercise plan
  * How often to test your blood sugar
  * Taking your medicine as prescribed. Your medicine plan may need to change during pregnancy.

NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases

## Start Here

  * Diabetes and Pregnancy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) Also in Spanish
  * Gestational Diabetes and Pregnancy (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
  * Type 1 or Type 2 Diabetes and Pregnancy (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
  * What I Need to Know about Gestational Diabetes ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

  * Blood Glucose Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * Diabetes Tests & Diagnosis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) Also in Spanish
  * Glucose in Urine Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Prevention and Risk Factors

  * Am I at Risk for Gestational Diabetes? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) \- PDF

## Treatments and Therapies

  * How to Treat Gestational Diabetes (American Diabetes Association)
  * Metformin and Pregnancy (Organization of Teratology Information Specialists) \- PDF Also in Spanish

## Living With

  * Diabetic Diet: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * How Gestational Diabetes Can Impact Your Baby (American Diabetes Association)

## Related Issues

  * Causes of Diabetes ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) Also in Spanish

## Genetics

  * Genetics Home Reference: gestational diabetes ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Statistics and Research

  * Gestational Age, Infant Birth Weight, and Subsequent Risk of Type 2 Diabetes in Mothers: Nurses' Health Study II (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish
  * Healthy Pre-Pregnancy Diet and Exercise May Reduce Risk of Gestational Diabetes ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development)

## Clinical Trials

  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Diabetes, Gestational ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

  * Article: The association between HHEX single-nucleotide polymorphism rs5015480 and gestational diabetes mellitus:...
  * Article: Evaluation of the gestational diabetes mellitus diagnostic criteria recommended by the...
  * Article: The roles of ADIPOQ rs266729 and MTNR1B rs10830963 polymorphisms in patients...
  * Diabetes and Pregnancy -- see more articles
  * Pregnancy in diabetics -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

  * American Diabetes Association
  * Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Also in Spanish
  * National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)
  * NIDDK Information Clearinghouses and Health Information Center ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)

## Patient Handouts

  * Diabetes diet - gestational (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Gestational diabetes (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Gestational diabetes - self-care (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Glucose screening and tolerance tests during pregnancy (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Infant of diabetic mother (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Diabetes and
Pregnancy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DiabetesandPregnancy.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

  * Diabetes diet - gestational
  * Gestational diabetes
  * Gestational diabetes - self-care
  * Glucose screening and tolerance tests during pregnancy
  * Infant of diabetic mother

## Related Health Topics

  * Diabetes
  * Health Problems in Pregnancy

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Diabetes and Pregnancy is the
Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human
Development

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Diabetes and
Pregnancy_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 13 February 2020 Topic last reviewed: 22 December 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

