Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000882.htm    
                                Description: Pemphigus vulgaris (PV) is an autoimmune disorderÂ of the skin. It involves blistering and sores (erosions) of the skin and mucous membranes.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pemphigus vulgaris

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000882.htm

# Pemphigus vulgaris

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pemphigus vulgaris (PV) is an autoimmune disorderÂ of the skin. It involves
blistering and sores (erosions) of the skin and mucous membranes.

## Causes

The immune system produces antibodies against specific proteins in the skin
and mucous membranes. These antibodies break the bonds between skin cells.
This leads to the formation of a blister. The exact cause is unknown.

In rare cases, pemphigus is caused by some medicines, including:

    * A medicine called penicillamine, which removes certain materials from the blood (chelating agent)
    * Blood pressure medicines called ACE inhibitors 
    * Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs)

Pemphigus is uncommon. It most often occurs in middle-aged or older people.

## Symptoms

About 50% of people with this condition first develop painful blisters and
sores in the mouth. This is followed by skin blisters. Skin sores may come and
go.

The skin sores may be described as:

    * Draining
    * Oozing
    * Crusting
    * Peeling or easily detached

They may be located:

    * In the mouth and down the throat
    * On the scalp, trunk, or other skin areas

## Exams and Tests

The skin separates easily when the surface of unaffected skin is rubbed
sideways with a cotton swab or finger. This is called a positive Nikolsky
sign.

A skin biopsy is often done to confirm the diagnosis.

## Treatment

Severe cases of pemphigus may need wound management, similar to the treatment
for severe burns. People with PV may need to stay in a hospital and receive
care in a burn unit or intensive care unit.

Treatment is aimed at reducing symptoms, including pain. It also aims to
prevent complications, especially infections.

Treatment may involve:

    * Antibiotics and antifungal medicines to control or prevent infections
    * Fluids and electrolytes given through a vein (IV) if there are severe mouth ulcers
    * IV feedings if there are severe mouth ulcers
    * Numbing (anesthetic) mouth lozenges to reduce mouth ulcer pain
    * Pain medicines if local pain relief is not enough 

Body-wide (systemic) therapy is needed to control pemphigus and should be
started as early as possible. Systemic treatment includes:

    * An anti-inflammatory drug called dapsone
    * Corticosteroids
    * Medicines containing gold
    * Medicines that suppress the immune system (such as azathioprine, methotrexate, cyclosporine, cyclophosphamide, mycophenolate mofetil, or rituximab) 

Antibiotics may be used to treat or prevent infection. Intravenous
immunoglobulin (IVIg) is occasionally used.

Plasmapheresis may be used along with systemic medicines to reduce the amount
of antibodies in the blood. Plasmapheresis is a process in which antibody-
containing plasma is removed from the blood and replaced with intravenous
fluids or donated plasma.

Ulcer and blister treatments include soothing or drying lotions, wet
dressings, or similar measures.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Without treatment, this condition can be life threatening. Severe infection is
the most frequent cause of death.

With treatment, the disorder tends to be chronic. Side effects of treatment
may be severe or disabling.

## Possible Complications

Complications of PV include:

    * Secondary skin infections
    * Severe dehydration
    * Side effects of medicines
    * Spread of infection through the bloodstream (sepsis)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Your health care provider should examine any unexplained blisters.

Call your provider if you have been treated for PV and you develop any of the
following symptoms:

    * Chills
    * Fever
    * General ill feeling 
    * Joint aches 
    * Muscle aches 
    * New blisters or ulcers

## Images

    * ![Pemphigus vulgaris on the back](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2459t.jpg)Pemphigus vulgaris on the back
    * ![Pemphigus vulgaris - lesions in the mouth](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2502t.jpg)Pemphigus vulgaris - lesions in the mouth

## References

Amagai M. Pemphigus. In: Bolognia JL, Schaffer JV, Cerroni L, eds.
_Dermatology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 29.

Habif TP. Vesicular and bullous diseases. In: Habif TP, ed. _Clinical
Dermatology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 16.

James WD, Berger TG, Elston DM. Chronic blistering dermatoses. In: James WD,
Berger TG, Elston DM, eds. _Andrew's Diseases of the Skin_. 12th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 21.

## Review Date 5/24/2018

Updated by: Kevin Berman, MD, PhD, Atlanta Center for Dermatologic Disease,
Atlanta, GA. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![PÃ©nfigo](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pemphigus_thumb.jpg)Pemphigus _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

