Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000883.htm    
                                Description: Bullous pemphigoid is a skin disorder characterized by blisters.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bullous pemphigoid

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000883.htm

# Bullous pemphigoid

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Bullous pemphigoid is a skin disorder characterized by blisters.

## Causes

Bullous pemphigoid is an autoimmune disorderÂ that occurs when the body's
immune system attacks and destroys healthy body tissue by mistake.
Specifically, the immune system attacks the proteins that attach the top layer
of skin (epidermis) to the bottom layer of skin.

This disorder usually occurs in older persons and is rare in young people.
Symptoms come and go. The condition often goes away within 5 years.

## Symptoms

Most people with this disorder have itchy skin that may be severe. In most
cases, there are blisters, called bullae.

    * Blisters are usually located on the arms, legs, or middle of the body. In rare cases, blisters can form in the mouth.
    * The blisters may break open and form open sores (ulcers). 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will examine the skin and ask about the symptoms.

Tests that may be done to help diagnose this condition include:

    * Blood tests
    * Skin biopsy of the blister or the area next to it 

## Treatment

Anti-inflammatory medicines called corticosteroids may be prescribed. They may
be taken by mouth or applied to the skin. More powerful medicines may be used
to help suppress the immune system if steroids do not work, or to allow lower
steroid doses to be used.

Antibiotics in the tetracycline family may be useful. Niacin (a B complex
vitamin) is sometimes given along with tetracycline.

Your provider may suggest self-care measures. These may include:

    * Applying anti-itch creams to the skin
    * Using mild soaps and applying moisturizer to the skin after bathing
    * Protecting the affected skin from sun exposure and from injury 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Bullous pemphigoid usually responds well to treatment.Â The medicine can often
be stopped after several years. The disease sometimes returns after treatment
is stopped.

## Possible Complications

Skin infection is the most common complication.

Complications resulting from treatment may also occur, especially from taking
corticosteroids.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact yourÂ provider if you have:

    * Unexplained blisters on your skin
    * An itchy rash that continues despite home treatment

## Images

    * ![Bullous pemphigoid - close-up of tense blisters](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1531t.jpg)Bullous pemphigoid - close-up of tense blisters

## References

Habif TP. Vesicular and bullous diseases. In: Habif TP, ed. _Clinical
Dermatology: A Color Guide to Diagnosis and Therapy_. 6th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 16.

PeÃ±aS, Werth VP. Bullous pemphigoid. In: Lebwohl MG, Heymann WR, Berth-Jones
J, Coulson IH, eds. _Treatment of Skin Disease: Comprehensive Therapeutic
Strategies_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 33.

## Review Date 4/16/2019

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![PÃ©nfigo](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pemphigus_thumb.jpg)Pemphigus _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

