Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003285.htm    
                                Description: Nikolsky sign is a skin finding in which the top layers of the skin slip away from the lower layers when rubbed.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Nikolsky sign

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003285.htm

# Nikolsky sign

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Nikolsky sign is a skin finding in which the top layers of the skin slip away
from the lower layers when rubbed.

## Considerations

Your health care provider may use a pencil eraser or finger to test for
Nikolsky sign. The skin is pulled to the side with a shearing pressure on the
surface, or by rotating the eraser back and forth.

If the test result is positive, the very thin top layer of skin will shear
off, leaving skin pink and moist, and usually very tender.

A positive result is usually a sign of a blistering skin condition. People
with a positive sign have loose skin that slips free from the underlying
layers when rubbed.

## Causes

The Nikolsky sign can be often found in people with:

    * Autoimmune blistering conditions such as pemphigus vulgaris
    * Bacterial infections such as scalded skin syndrome
    * Drug reactions such as erythema multiforme

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you or your child develops painful loosening, redness,
and blistering of the skin, which you do not know the cause of (for example, a
skin burn).

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The conditions associated with Nikolsky sign can be serious. Some people need
to be admitted to the hospital. You will be asked about your medical history
and given a physical examination. You may be given fluid and antibiotics
through a vein (intravenously).

Treatment will depend on the cause of the condition.

## Images

    * ![Nikolsky sign](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17280t.jpg)Nikolsky sign

## References

Habif TP. Vesicular and bullous diseases. In: Habif TP, ed. _Clinical
Dermatology: A Color Guide to Diagnosis and Therapy_. 6th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 16.

Marco CA. Dermatologic presentations. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-
Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 110.

## Review Date 2/27/2018

Updated by: David L. Swanson, MD, Vice Chair of Medical Dermatology, Associate
Professor of Dermatology, Mayo Medical School, Scottsdale, AZ. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![PÃ©nfigo](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Pemphigus_thumb.jpg)Pemphigus _Read
more_

![Skin
Conditions](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinConditions2_thumb.jpg)Skin
Conditions _Read more_

![Skin Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinInfection_thumb.jpg)Skin
Infections _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

