Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001073.htm    
                                Description: Bursitis of the heel is swelling of the fluid-filled sac (bursa) at the back of the heel bone.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bursitis of the heel

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001073.htm

# Bursitis of the heel

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Bursitis of the heel is swelling of the fluid-filled sac (bursa) at the back
of the heel bone.

## Causes

A bursa acts as a cushion and lubricant between tendons or muscles sliding
over bone. There are bursas around most large joints in the body, including
the ankle.

The retrocalcaneal bursa is located in the back of the ankle by the heel. It
is where the large Achilles tendon connects the calf muscles to the heel bone.

Repeated or too much use of the ankle can cause this bursa to become irritated
and inflamed. It may be caused by too much walking, running, or jumping.

This condition is very often linked to Achilles tendinitis. Sometimes
retrocalcaneal bursitis may be mistaken for Achilles tendinitis.

Risks for this condition include:

    * Starting a very intense workout schedule
    * Suddenly increasing activity level without the right conditioning
    * Changes in activity levelÂ 
    * History of arthritis that is caused by inflammation

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

    * Pain at the back of the heel, especially with walking, running, or when the area is touched
    * Pain may get worse when rising on the toes (standing on tiptoes)
    * Red, warm skin over the back of the heel 

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will take a history to find out if you have symptoms
of retrocalcaneal bursitis. An exam will be done to find the location of the
pain. The provider will also look for tenderness and redness in the back of
the heel.

The pain may be worse when your ankle is bent upward (dorsiflex). Or, the pain
may be worse when you rise on your toes.

Most of the time, you will not need imaging studies such as x-ray and MRI at
first. You may need these tests later if the first treatments do not lead to
improvement. Inflammation may show on an MRI.

## Treatment

Your provider may recommend that you do the following:

    * Avoid activities that cause pain.
    * Put ice on the heel several times a day.
    * Take nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), such as ibuprofen.
    * Try using over-the-counter or custom heel wedges in your shoe to help decrease stress on the heel.
    * Try ultrasound treatment during physical therapy to reduce inflammation. 

Have physical therapy to improve flexibility and strength around the ankle.
The focus will be on stretching your Achilles tendon. This can help the
bursitis improve and prevent it from coming back.

If these treatments do not work, your provider may inject a small amount of
steroid medicine into the bursa. After the injection, you should avoid
overstretching the tendon because it can break open (rupture).

If the condition is connected to Achilles tendinitis, you may need to wear a
cast on the ankle for several weeks. Very rarely, surgery may be needed to
remove the inflamed bursa.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

This condition most often gets better in several weeks with the proper
treatment.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have heel pain or symptoms of retrocalcaneal
bursitis that do not improve with rest.

## Prevention

Things you can do to prevent the problem include:

    * Use proper form when exercising.
    * Maintain as good flexibility and strength around the ankle to help prevent this condition.
    * Stretch the Achilles tendon to help prevent injury.
    * Wear shoes with enough arch support to decrease the amount of stress on the tendon and inflammation in the bursa.

## Alternative Names

Insertional heel pain; Retrocalcaneal bursitis

## Images

    * ![Flexibility exercise](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19391t.jpg)Flexibility exercise
    * ![Retrocalcaneal bursitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9830t.jpg)Retrocalcaneal bursitis

## References

Joseph RL, Hudgins TH. Foot and ankle bursitis. In: Frontera WR, Silver JK,
Rizzo TD, eds. _Essentials of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation_. 3rd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 86.

Kadakia AR. Heel pain and plantar fasciitis: hindfoot conditions. In: Miller
MD, Thompson SR, eds. _DeLee and Drez's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 119.

Seller RH, Symons AB. Pain in the foot. In: Seller RH, Symons AB, eds.
_Differential Diagnosis of Common Complaints_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 23.

## Review Date 8/15/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bursitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Bursitis_thumb.jpg)Bursitis _Read
more_

![Heel Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeelInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Heel
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

