Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000777.htm    
                                Description: Greater trochanteric pain syndrome (GTPS) is pain that occurs on the outside of the hip. The greater trochanter is located at the top of the thighbone (femur) and is the most prominent part of the hip.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Greater trochanteric pain syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000777.htm

# Greater trochanteric pain syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Greater trochanteric pain syndrome (GTPS) is pain that occurs on the outside
of the hip. The greater trochanter is located at the top of the thighbone
(femur) and is the most prominent part of the hip.

## Causes

GTPS can be caused by:

    * Overuse or stress on the hip from exercising or standing for long periods
    * Hip injury, such as from a fall
    * Being overweight
    * Having one leg that is longer than the other
    * Bone spurs on the hip
    * Arthritis of the hip, knee, or foot
    * Painful problems of the foot, such as a bunion, callas, plantar fasciitis, or Achilles tendon pain
    * Spine problems, including scoliosis and arthritis of the spine
    * Muscle imbalance that puts more stress around the hip muscles
    * Tear in a buttocks muscle
    * Infection (rare)

GTPS is more common in older adults. Being out of shape or overweight may put
you at greater risk for hip bursitis. Women are more affected than men.

## Symptoms

Common symptoms include:

    * Pain at the side of the hip, which may also be felt on the outside of the thigh
    * Pain that is sharp or intense at first, but may become more of an ache
    * Difficulty walking
    * Joint stiffness
    * Swelling and warmth of the hip joint
    * Catching and clicking sensation 

You may notice the pain more when:

    * Getting out of a chair or bed
    * Sitting for a long time
    * Walking up stairs
    * Sleeping or lying on the affected side 

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will do a physical exam and ask about your symptoms.
The provider may do the following during the exam:

    * Ask you to point to the location of the pain
    * Feel and press on your hip area
    * Move your hip and leg as you lie on the exam table
    * Ask you to stand, walk, sit down and stand up
    * Measure the length of each leg

To rule out other conditions that could be causing your symptoms, you may have
tests such as:

    * X-rays
    * Ultrasound
    * MRI

## Treatment

Many cases of GTPS go away with rest and self-care. Your provider may
recommend that you try the following:

    * Use an ice pack 3 to 4 times a day for the first 2 or 3 days.
    * Take pain relievers such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) or naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn) to help relieve pain and swelling.
    * Avoid activities that make the pain worse.
    * When sleeping, do not lie on the side that has bursitis.
    * Avoid standing for long periods of time.
    * When standing, stand on a soft, cushioned surface. Put an equal amount of weight on each leg.
    * Placing a pillow between your knees when lying on your side can help decrease your pain.
    * Wear comfortable, well-cushioned shoes with a low heel.
    * Lose weight if you are overweight.
    * Strengthen your core muscles. 

As the pain goes away, your provider may suggest exercises to build strength
and prevent muscle atrophy. You may need physical therapy if you have trouble
moving the joint.

Other treatments include:

    * Removing fluid from the bursa
    * Steroid injection 

## Prevention

To help prevent hip pain:

    * Always warm up and stretch before exercising and cool down afterward. Stretch your quadriceps and hamstrings.
    * Don't increase the distance, intensity, and amount of time you exercise all at the same time.
    * Avoid running straight down hills. Walk down instead.
    * Swim instead of running or cycling.
    * Run on a smooth, soft surface, such as a track. Avoid running on cement.
    * If you have flat feet, try special shoe inserts and arch supports (orthotics).
    * Make sure your running shoes fit well and have good cushioning. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if symptoms come back or do not improve after 2 weeks of
treatment.

Get medical help right away if you have any of the following:

    * Your hip pain is caused by a serious fall or other injury
    * Your leg is deformed, badly bruised, or bleeding
    * You are unable to move your hip or bear any weight on your leg 

## Alternative Names

Hip pain - greater trochanteric pain syndrome; GTPS; Bursitis of the hip; Hip
bursitis

## References

Fredericson M, Lin CY, Chew K. Greater trochanteric pain syndrome. In:
Frontera WR, Silver JK, Rizzo TD, eds. _Essentials of Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 62.

Javidan P, Gortz S, Fricka KB, Bugbee WD. The hip. In: Hochberg MC, Gravallese
EM, Silman AJ, Smolen JS, Weinblatt ME, Weisman MH, eds. _Rheumatology_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 85.

## Review Date 11/5/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Bursitis
    * Hip Injuries and Disorders

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

