Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000419.htm    
                                Description: Bursitis is the swelling and irritation of a bursa. A bursa is a fluid-filled sac that acts as a cushion between muscles, tendons, and bones.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bursitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000419.htm

# Bursitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Bursitis is the swelling and irritation of a bursa. A bursa is a fluid-filled
sac that acts as a cushion between muscles, tendons, and bones.

## Causes

Bursitis is often a result of overuse. It can be caused by a change in
activity level, such as training for a marathon, or by being overweight.

ItÂ can also be caused by trauma, rheumatoid arthritis, gout, or infection.
Sometimes, the cause can't be found.

Bursitis commonly occurs in the shoulder, knee, elbow, and hip. Other areas
that may be affected include the Achilles tendon and the foot.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of bursitis may include any of the following:

    * Joint pain and tenderness when you press around the joint
    * Stiffness and aching when you move the affected joint
    * Swelling, warmth or redness over the joint
    * Pain during movement and rest
    * Pain may spread to the nearby areas

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will ask about your medical history and perform
physical exam.

Tests that may be ordered include:

    * Removing fluid from the bursa
    * Culture of the fluid
    * Ultrasound
    * MRI

## Treatment

Your provider will talk to you about a treatment plan to help you resume your
normal activities, including some of the following tips.

Tips to relieve bursitis pain:

    * Use ice 3 to 4 times a day for the first 2 or 3 days.
    * Cover the painful area with a towel, and place the ice on it for 15 minutes. DO NOT fall asleep while applying the ice. You can get frostbite if you leave it on too long.
    * When sleeping, do not lie on the side that has bursitis. 

For bursitis around the hips, knees, or ankle:

    * Try not to stand for long periods.
    * Stand on a soft, cushioned surface, with equal weight on each leg.
    * Placing a pillow between your knees when lying on your side can help decrease pain.
    * Flat shoes that are cushioned and comfortable often help.
    * If you are overweight, losing weight may also be helpful. 

You should avoid activities that involve repetitive movements of any body part
when possible.

Other treatments include:

    * Medicines such as NSAIDs (ibuprofen, naproxen)
    * Physical therapy
    * Exercises you do at home to build strength and keep the joint mobile as pain goes away
    * Removing fluid from the bursa and getting a corticosteroid shotÂ 

As the pain goes away, your provider may suggest exercises to build strength
and keep movement in the painful area.

In rare cases, surgery is done.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Some people do well with treatment. When the cause cannot be corrected, you
may have long-term pain.

## Possible Complications

If the bursa is infected, it becomes more inflamed and painful. This usually
requires antibiotics or surgery.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if symptomsÂ recurÂ or do not improve after 3 to 4 weeks of
treatment, or if the pain is getting worse.

## Prevention

When possible, avoid activities that include repetitive movements of any body
parts. Strengthening your muscles and working on your balance may help
decrease the risk of bursitis.

## Alternative Names

Student's elbow; Olecranon bursitis; Housemaid's knee; Prepatellar bursitis;
Weaver's bottom; Ischial gluteal bursitis; Baker's cyst; Gastrocnemius -
semimembranosus bursa

## Images

    * ![Bursa of the elbow](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19070t.jpg)Bursa of the elbow
    * ![Bursa of the knee](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19071t.jpg)Bursa of the knee
    * ![Bursitis of the shoulder](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8741t.jpg)Bursitis of the shoulder

## References

Biundo JJ. Bursitis, tendinitis, and other periarticular disorders of sports
medicine. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 263.

Hogrefe C, Jones EM. Tendinopathy and bursitis. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 107.

## Review Date 8/15/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bursitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Bursitis_thumb.jpg)Bursitis _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

