Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000884.htm    
                                Description: Seborrheic keratosis is a condition that causes wart-like growths on the skin. The growths are noncancerous (benign).     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Seborrheic keratosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000884.htm

# Seborrheic keratosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Seborrheic keratosis is a condition that causes wart-like growths on the skin.
The growths are noncancerous (benign).

## Causes

Seborrheic keratosis is a benign form of skin tumor. The cause is unknown.

The condition commonly appears after age 40. It tends to run in families.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of seborrheic keratosis are skin growths that:

    * Are located on the face, chest, shoulders, back, or other areas, except the lips, palms, and soles
    * Are painless, but may become irritated and itchy
    * Are most often tan, brown, or black
    * Have a slightly raised, flat surface
    * May have a rough texture (like a wart)
    * Often have a waxy surface
    * Are round or oval in shape
    * May look like a piece of bee's wax that has been "pasted-on" the skin
    * Often appear in clusters 

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will look at the growths to determine if you have
the condition. You may need a skin biopsy to confirm the diagnosis.

## Treatment

You usually DO NOT need treatment unless growths get irritated or affect your
appearance.

Growths may be removed with surgery or freezing (cryotherapy).

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Removing the growths is simple and usually does not cause scars. You may have
patches of lighter skin where growths on the torso have been removed.

Growths usually DO NOT return after they are removed. You may develop more
growths in the future if you are prone to the condition.

## Possible Complications

These complications may occur:

    * Irritation, bleeding, or discomfort of growths
    * Mistake in diagnosis (growths may look like skin cancer tumors)
    * Distress due to physical appearance

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of seborrheic keratosis.

Also call if you have new symptoms, such as:

    * A change in the appearance of the skin growth
    * New growths
    * A growth that looks like a seborrheic keratosis, but occurs by itself or has ragged borders and irregular color. Your provider will need to examine it for skin cancer.

## Alternative Names

Benign skin tumors - keratosis; Keratosis - seborrheic; Senile keratosis;
Senile verruca

## Images

    * ![Irritated Seborrheic Kerotosis - neck](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/3208t.jpg)Irritated Seborrheic Kerotosis - neck

## References

Fitzpatrick JE, High WA, Kyle WL. Papillomatous and verrucous lesions. In:
Fitzpatrick JE, High WA, Kyle WL, eds. _Urgent Care Dermatology: Symptom-Based
Diagnosis_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 28.

Marks JG, Miller JJ. Epidermal growths. In: Marks JG, Miller JJ, eds.
_Lookingbill and Marks' Principles of Dermatology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2019:chap 5.

Requena L, Requena C, Cockerell CJ. Benign epidermal tumors and
proliferations. In: Bolognia JL, Schaffer JV, Cerroni L, eds. _Dermatology_.
4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 109.

## Review Date 10/14/2018

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Benign Tumors](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BenignTumors_thumb.jpg)Benign
Tumors _Read more_

![Skin
Conditions](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinConditions2_thumb.jpg)Skin
Conditions _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

