Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001437.htm    
                                Description: Ganglioneuroma is a tumor of the autonomic nervous system.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ganglioneuroma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001437.htm

# Ganglioneuroma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Ganglioneuroma is a tumor of the autonomic nervous system.

## Causes

Ganglioneuromas are rare tumors that most often start in autonomic nerve
cells. Autonomic nerves manage body functions such as blood pressure, heart
rate, sweating, bowel and bladder emptying, and digestion. The tumors are
usually noncancerous (benign).

Ganglioneuromas usually occur in people over 10 years of age. They grow
slowly, and may release certain chemicals or hormones.

There are no known risk factors. However, the tumors may be associated with
some genetic problems, such as neurofibromatosis type 1.

## Symptoms

A ganglioneuroma usually causes no symptoms. The tumor is only discovered when
a person is examined or treated for another condition.

Symptoms depend on the location of the tumor and the type of chemicals it
releases.

If the tumor is in the chest area (mediastinum), symptoms may include:

    * Breathing difficulty
    * Chest pain
    * Compression of the windpipe (trachea) 

If the tumor is lower down in the abdomen in the area called the
retroperitoneal space, symptoms may include:

    * Abdominal pain
    * Bloating 

If the tumor is near the spinal cord, it may cause:

    * Compression of the spinal cord, which leads to pain and loss of strength or feeling in the legs, arms, or both
    * Spine deformity 

These tumors may produce certain hormones, which can cause the following
symptoms:

    * Diarrhea
    * Enlarged clitoris (women)
    * High blood pressure
    * Increased body hair
    * Sweating 

## Exams and Tests

The best tests to identify a ganglioneuroma are:

    * CT scan of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis
    * MRI scan of the chest and abdomen
    * Ultrasound of the abdomen or pelvis

Blood and urine tests may be done to determine if the tumor is producing
hormones or other chemicals.

A biopsy or complete removal of the tumor may be needed to confirm the
diagnosis.

## Treatment

Treatment involves surgery to remove the tumor (if it is causing symptoms).

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most ganglioneuromas are noncancerous. The expected outcome is usually good.

A ganglioneuroma may become cancerous and spread to other areas. Or, it may
come back after it is removed.

## Possible Complications

If the tumor has been present for a long time and has pressed on the spinal
cord or caused other symptoms, surgery to remove the tumor may not reverse the
damage. Compression of the spinal cord may result in loss of movement
(paralysis), especially if the cause is not detected promptly.

Surgery to remove the tumor may also lead to complications in some cases. In
rare cases, problems due to compression may occur even after the tumor is
removed.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you or your child has symptoms that may be
caused by this type of tumor.

## Images

    * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system

## References

Goldblum JR, Folpe AL, Weiss SW. Benign tumors of peripheral nerve. In:
Goldblum JR, Folpe AL, Weiss SW, eds. _Enzinger and Weiss's Soft Tissue
Tumors_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 27.

Haithcock BE, Zagar TM, Zhang L, Stinchcombe TE. Diseases of the pleura and
mediastinum. In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Doroshow JH, Kastan MB, Tepper
JE, eds. _Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2014:chap 73.

## Review Date 7/29/2018

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, FAAN, Attending Neurologist and
Assistant Professor of Clinical Neurology, Stony Brook University School of
Medicine, Stony Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Benign Tumors](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BenignTumors_thumb.jpg)Benign
Tumors _Read more_

![Peripheral Nerve
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PeripheralNerveDisorders_thumb.jpg)Peripheral
Nerve Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

