Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007265.htm    
                                Description: A thyroid nodule is a growth (lump) in the thyroid gland. The thyroid gland is locatedÂ at the front ofÂ the neck, just above where your collarbones meet in the middle.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Thyroid nodule

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007265.htm

# Thyroid nodule

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A thyroid nodule is a growth (lump) in the thyroid gland. The thyroid gland is
locatedÂ at the front ofÂ the neck, just above where your collarbones meet in
the middle.

## Causes

Thyroid nodules are caused by an overgrowth of cells in the thyroid gland.
These growths can be:

    * Not cancer (benign), thyroid cancer (malignant), or very rarely other cancers or infections
    * Fluid-filled (cysts)
    * One nodule or a group of small nodules
    * Producing thyroid hormones (hot nodule) or not making thyroid hormones (cold nodule)

Thyroid nodules are very common. They occur more often in women than in men. A
person's chance of gettingÂ a thyroid nodule increases with age.

Only a few thyroid nodules are due to thyroid cancer. A thyroid nodule is more
likely to be cancer if you:

    * Have a hard nodule
    * Have a nodule that is stuck to nearby structures
    * Have a family history of thyroid cancer
    * Have noticed a change in your voice
    * Are younger than 20 or older than 70
    * Have a history of radiation exposure to the head or neck
    * Are male

Causes of thyroid nodules are not always found, but can include:

    * Hashimoto's disease (a reaction of the immune system against the thyroid gland)
    * Lack of iodine in the diet 

## Symptoms

Most thyroid nodules do not cause symptoms.

Large nodules can press against other structures in the neck. This canÂ cause
symptoms such as:

    * A visible goiterÂ (enlarged thyroid gland)
    * Hoarseness or changing voice 
    * Pain in the neck
    * Problems breathing,Â especially when lying down flat
    * Problems swallowingÂ food

Nodules that produce thyroid hormones will likely cause symptoms of overactive
thyroid gland, including:

    * Warm, sweaty skin
    * Fast pulse
    * Increased appetite 
    * Nervousness
    * Restlessness 
    * Skin blushing or flushing
    * Weight loss
    * Irregular menstrual periods

Older people with a nodule that produces too much thyroid hormone may have
only vague symptoms, including:

    * Fatigue
    * Palpitations
    * Chest pain
    * Memory loss

Thyroid nodules are sometimes found in people who have Hashimoto disease.Â
This may cause symptoms of an underactive thyroid gland,Â such as:Â

    * ConstipationÂ 
    * Dry skin
    * Face swelling
    * Fatigue
    * Hair loss
    * Feeling cold when other people do not
    * Weight gain 
    * Irregular menstrual periods

Very often, nodules produce no symptoms. Health care providers find thyroid
nodules only during a routine physical exam or imaging tests that are done for
another reason. A few people have thyroid nodules that are big enough that
they notice the nodule on their own and ask a provider to examine their neck.

## Exams and Tests

IfÂ aÂ providerÂ finds a nodule or you have symptoms of a nodule, the
following tests may be done:

    * TSH level and other thyroid blood tests
    * Thyroid ultrasound
    * Thyroid scan (nuclear medicine) 
    * Fine needle aspiration biopsy of the nodule or of multiple nodules 

## Treatment

Your provider may recommend surgery to remove all or part of your thyroid
gland if the nodule is:

    * Due to thyroid cancer
    * Causing symptoms such as swallowing or breathing problems
    * If the fine needle biopsy is inconclusive, and your provider can't tell whether the nodule is a cancer
    * Making too much thyroid hormone

People with nodules that are making too much thyroid hormone may be treated
with radioiodine therapy. This reduces the size and activity of the nodule.
Pregnant women or women who are still breastfeeding are not given this
treatment.

Both surgery to remove thyroid gland tissue and radioactive iodine treatment
can cause lifelong hypothyroidism (underactive thyroid). This condition needs
to be treated with thyroid hormone replacement.

For noncancerous nodules that do not cause symptoms and are not growing, the
best treatment may be:

    * Careful follow-up with a physical exam and ultrasound
    * A thyroid biopsy repeated 6 to 12 months after diagnosis, especially if the nodule has grown 

Another possible treatment is an ethanol (alcohol) injection into the nodule
to shrink it.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Noncancerous thyroid nodules are not life-threatening. Many do not require
treatment. Follow-up exams are enough.

The outlook for thyroid cancer depends on the type of cancer.Â For most common
kinds of thyroid cancer, the outlook is very good after treatment.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you feel or see a lump in your neck, or if
youÂ have any symptoms of a thyroid nodule.

If you have been exposed to radiation in the face or neck area, call your
provider. A neck ultrasound can be done to look for thyroid nodules.

## Alternative Names

Thyroid tumor - nodule; Thyroid adenoma - nodule; Thyroid carcinoma - nodule;
Thyroid cancer - nodule; Thyroid incidentaloma; Hot nodule; Cold nodule;
Thyrotoxicosis - nodule; Hyperthyroidism - nodule

## Patient Instructions

    * Thyroid gland removal - discharge

## Images

    * ![Thyroid gland biopsy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8967t.jpg)Thyroid gland biopsy

## References

Haugen BR, Alexander EK, Bible KC, et al. 2015 American Thyroid Association
management guidelines for adult patients with thyroid nodules and
differentiated thyroid cancer: The American Thyroid Association Guidelines
Task Force on Thyroid Nodules and Differentiated Thyroid Cancer. _Thyroid_.
2016;26(1):1-133. PMID: 26462967 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26462967.

Kim M, Ladenson PW. Thyroid. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 226.

Schlumberger MJ, Filetti S, Alexander, EK, Hay ID. Nontoxic diffuse goiter,
nodular thyroid disorders, and thyroid malignancies. In: Melmed S, Polonsky
KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_. 13th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 14.

## Review Date 5/17/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Benign Tumors](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BenignTumors_thumb.jpg)Benign
Tumors _Read more_

![Thyroid
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ThyroidDiseases_thumb.jpg)Thyroid
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

