Link: https://medlineplus.gov/diabetesinchildrenandteens.html    
                                Description: Children and teens can get Type 1 or Type 2 Diabetes. Learn the differences between the two.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Diabetes in Children and Teens

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/diabetesinchildrenandteens.html

#  Diabetes in Children and Teens

On this page

### Basics

  * Summary
  * Start Here
  * Symptoms
  * Diagnosis and Tests
  * Prevention and Risk Factors
  * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

  * Living With
  * Related Issues
  * Specifics

### See, Play and Learn

  * No links available

### Research

  * Statistics and Research
  * Clinical Trials
  * Journal Articles

### Resources

  * Reference Desk
  * Find an Expert

### For You

  * Children
  * Teenagers
  * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Until recently, the common type of diabetes in children and teens was type 1.
It was called juvenile diabetes. With Type 1 diabetes, the pancreas does not
make insulin. Insulin is a hormone that helps glucose,or sugar, get into your
cells to give them energy. Without insulin, too much sugar stays in the blood.

Now younger people are also getting type 2 diabetes. Type 2 diabetes used to
be called adult-onset diabetes. But now it is becoming more common in children
and teens, due to more obesity. With Type 2 diabetes, the body does not make
or use insulin well.

Children have a higher risk of type 2 diabetes if they are overweight or have
obesity, have a family history of diabetes, or are not active. Children who
are African American, Hispanic, Native American/Alaska Native, Asian American,
or Pacific Islander also have a higher risk. To lower the risk of type 2
diabetes in children

  * Have them maintain a healthy weight
  * Be sure they are physically active
  * Have them eat smaller portions of healthy foods
  * Limit time with the TV, computer, and video

Children and teens with type 1 diabetes may need to take insulin. Type 2
diabetes may be controlled with diet and exercise. If not, patients will need
to take oral diabetes medicines or insulin. A blood test called the A1C can
check on how you are managing your diabetes.

## Start Here

  * Type 1 Diabetes: What Is It? (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
  * Type 2 Diabetes: What Is It? (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Symptoms

  * Diabetes Type 1 Symptoms (American Diabetes Association)

## Diagnosis and Tests

  * A1C: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * Diabetes Tests & Diagnosis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) Also in Spanish
  * Ketones in Blood ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * Ketones in Urine ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Prevention and Risk Factors

  * 4 Steps to Manage Your Diabetes for Life ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (National Diabetes Education Program) Also in Spanish
  * Prevent Type 2 Diabetes in Kids (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

  * Medicines for Diabetes (Nemours Foundation)
  * Treating Type 2 Diabetes (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
  * Type 1 Diabetes: How Is It Treated? (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Living With

  * Carbohydrates and Diabetes (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
  * Diabetic Emergencies (American College of Emergency Physicians)
  * Meal Plans and Diabetes (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

  * Acanthosis Nigricans (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
  * Long-Term Complications of Diabetes (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation)
  * Managing Diabetes at School (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
  * Monogenic Forms of Diabetes: Neonatal Diabetes Mellitus and Maturity-Onset Diabetes of the Young ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Diabetes Information Clearinghouse, National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)

## Specifics

  * Weight and Diabetes (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Statistics and Research

  * Diabetes Increases in Children and Teens ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health) Also in Spanish
  * Two Diabetes Medications Don't Slow Progression of Type 2 Diabetes in Youth ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)

## Clinical Trials

  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Diabetes in Children and Teens ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

  * Article: Exploration of School Nurses' Perception of Self-Efficacy in Providing Care and...
  * Article: Yield of a Public Health Screening of Children for Islet Autoantibodies...
  * Article: Health-related quality of life of adolescents with type 1 diabetes mellitus.
  * Diabetes in Children and Teens -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

  * Diabetes: Glossary of Terms (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Find an Expert

  * American Diabetes Association
  * National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)
  * NIDDK Information Clearinghouses and Health Information Center ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)

## Children

  * Eagle Books (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Teenagers

  * Weight and Diabetes (Nemours Foundation)

## Patient Handouts

  * A1C test (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Blood sugar test - blood (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Giving an insulin injection (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Type 1 diabetes (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Diabetes in Children and
Teens](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DiabetesinChildrenandTeens.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

  * A1C test
  * Blood sugar test - blood
  * Counting carbohydrates
  * Diabetes
  * Diabetes - keeping active
  * Diabetes - what to ask your doctor - type 2
  * Diabetes - when you are sick
  * Diabetes and exercise
  * Diabetes type 2 - meal planning
  * Giving an insulin injection

  * Glucose tolerance test - non-pregnant
  * Glucose urine test
  * High blood sugar - self-care
  * Insulin C-peptide
  * Ketones urine test
  * Microalbuminuria test
  * Oral hypoglycemics overdose
  * Serum ketones test
  * Snacking when you have diabetes
  * Sweeteners - sugar substitutes
  * Type 1 diabetes
  * Type 2 diabetes - self-care

Show More Show Less

## Related Health Topics

  * A1C
  * Blood Sugar
  * Diabetes
  * Diabetes Complications
  * Diabetes Medicines
  * Diabetes Type 1
  * Diabetes Type 2
  * Diabetic Diet
  * Prediabetes

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Diabetes in Children and Teens is
the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 13 February 2020 Topic last reviewed: 6 August 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

