Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000345.htm    
                                Description: A craniopharyngioma is a noncancerous (benign) tumor that develops at the base of the brain near the pituitary gland.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Craniopharyngioma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000345.htm

# Craniopharyngioma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A craniopharyngioma is a noncancerous (benign) tumor that develops at the base
of the brain near the pituitary gland.

## Causes

The exact cause of the tumor is unknown.

This tumor most commonly affects children between 5 to 10 years of age. Adults
can sometimes be affected. Boys and girls are equally likely to develop this
tumor.

## Symptoms

Craniopharyngioma causes symptoms by:

    * Increasing pressure on the brain, usually from hydrocephalus
    * Disrupting hormone production by the pituitary gland
    * Pressure or damage to the optic nerve

Increased pressure on the brain can cause:

    * Headache
    * Nausea
    * Vomiting (especially in the morning)

Damage to the pituitary gland causes hormone imbalances that can lead to
excessive thirst and urination, and slow growth.

When the optic nerve is damaged by the tumor, vision problems develop. These
defects are often permanent. They may get worse after surgery to remove the
tumor.

Behavioral and learning problems may be present.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will perform a physical exam. Tests will be done to
check for a tumor. These may include:

    * Blood tests to measure hormone levels
    * CT scan or MRI scan of the brain
    * Examination of the nervous system

## Treatment

The goal of the treatment is to relieve symptoms. Usually, surgery has been
the main treatment for craniopharyngioma. However, radiation treatment instead
of surgery or along with a smaller surgery may be the best choice for some
people.

In tumors that cannot be removed completely with surgery alone, radiation
therapy is used. If the tumor has a classic appearance on CT scan, a biopsy
may not be needed if treatment with radiation alone is planned.

Stereotactic radiosurgery is performed at some medical centers.

This tumor is best treated at a center with experience in treating
craniopharyngiomas.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

In general, theÂ outlook is good. There is an 80% to 90% chance of a cure if
the tumor can be completely removed with surgery or treated with high doses of
radiation. If the tumor returns, it will most often come back within the first
2 years after surgery.

Outlook depends on several factors, including:

    * Whether the tumor can be completely removed
    * Which nervous system problems and hormonal imbalances the tumor and treatment cause 

Most of the problems with hormones and vision do not improve with treatment.
Sometimes, the treatment may even make them worse.

## Possible Complications

There may be long-term hormone, vision, and nervous system problems after
craniopharyngioma is treated.

When the tumor is not completely removed, the condition may return.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider for the following symptoms:

    * Headache, nausea, vomiting, or balance problems (signs of increased pressure on the brain)
    * Increased thirst and urination
    * Poor growth in a child
    * Vision changes

## Images

    * ![Endocrine glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1093t.jpg)Endocrine glands

## References

Ater JL, Kuttesch JF. Brain tumors in childhood. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF,
St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 497.

Styne DM, Grumbach MM. Physiology and disorders of puberty. In: Melmed S,
Polonsky KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of
Endocrinology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 25.

Suh JH, Chao ST, Murphy ES, Weil RJ. Pituitary tumors and craniopharyngioma.
In: Gunderson LL, Tepper JE, eds. _Clinical Radiation Oncology_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 29.

## Review Date 5/14/2018

Updated by: Preeti Sudheendra, MD, oncologist at the MD Anderson Cancer Center
at Cooper, Camden, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Benign Tumors](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BenignTumors_thumb.jpg)Benign
Tumors _Read more_

![Pituitary
Tumors](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PituitaryTumor_thumb.jpg)Pituitary
Tumors _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

