Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001033.htm    
                                Description: Benign ear cysts are lumps or growths in the ear. They are benign.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Benign ear cyst or tumor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001033.htm

# Benign ear cyst or tumor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Benign ear cysts are lumps or growths in the ear. They are benign.

## Causes

Sebaceous cysts are the most common type of cysts seen in the ear. These sack-
like lumps are made up of dead skin cells and oils produced by oil glands in
the skin.

Places they are likely to be found include:

    * Behind the ear 
    * In the ear canal 
    * In the earlobe 
    * On the scalp 

The exact cause of the problem is unknown. Cysts may occur when oils are
produced in a skin gland faster than they can be released from the gland. They
can also occur if the oil gland opening has become blocked and a cyst forms
under the skin.

Benign bony tumors of the ear canal (exostoses and osteomas) are caused by
excess growth of bone. Repeated exposure to cold water may increase the risk
of benign bony tumors of the ear canal.

## Symptoms

The symptoms of cysts include:

    * Pain (if cysts are in the outside ear canal or if they get infected)
    * Small soft skin lumps on, behind, or in front of the ear

The symptoms of benign tumors include:

    * Ear discomfort
    * Gradual hearing loss inÂ one ear
    * Repeated outer ear infections

Note: There may be no symptoms.

## Exams and Tests

Benign cysts and tumors are most often found during a routine ear exam. This
type of exam may include hearing tests (audiometry) and middle ear testing
(tympanometry). When looking into the ear, theÂ health care providerÂ may see
cysts or benign tumors in the ear canal.

Sometimes, a CT scan is needed.

This disease may also affect the results of the following tests:

    * Caloric stimulation
    * Electronystagmography

## Treatment

Treatment is not needed if the cyst does not cause pain or affect hearing.

If a cyst becomes painful, it may be infected. Treatment may include
antibiotics or removal of the cyst.

Benign bony tumors may increase in size over time. Surgery may be needed if a
benign tumor is painful, interferes with hearing, or leads to frequent ear
infections.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Benign ear cysts and tumors are slow-growing. They may sometimes shrink or may
disappear on their own.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Hearing loss, if the tumor is large
    * Infection of the cyst
    * Infection of the ear canal
    * Wax trapped in the ear canal

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have:

    * Symptoms of a benign ear cyst or tumor 
    * Discomfort, pain, or hearing loss 

## Alternative Names

Osteomas; Exostoses; Tumor - ear; Cysts - ear; Ear cysts; Ear tumors; Bony
tumor of the ear canal; Furuncles

## Images

    * ![Ear anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23221t.jpg)Ear anatomy

## References

Gold L, Williams TP. Odontogenic tumors: surgical pathology and management.
In: Fonseca RJ, ed. _Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 18.

Nicolai P, Castelnuovo P. Benign tumors of the sinonasal tract. In: Flint PW,
Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head & Neck
Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 48.

O'Handley JG, Tobin EJ, Shah AR. Otorhinolaryngology. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP,
eds. _Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 18.

Warren FM, Shelton C, Hamilton BE, Wiggins RH. Neuroradiology of the temporal
bone and skull base. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings
Otolaryngology: Head & Neck Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 135.

## Review Date 5/17/2018

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Benign Tumors](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BenignTumors_thumb.jpg)Benign
Tumors _Read more_

![Ear Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EarDisorders_thumb.jpg)Ear
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

