Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000243.htm    
                                Description: A hepatic hemangioma is a liver mass made of widened (dilated) blood vessels. It is not cancerous.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hepatic hemangioma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000243.htm

# Hepatic hemangioma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A hepatic hemangioma is a liver mass made of widened (dilated) blood vessels.
It is not cancerous.

## Causes

A hepatic hemangioma is the most common type of liver mass that is not caused
by cancer. It may be a birth defect.

Hepatic hemangiomas can occur at any time. They are most common in people in
their 30s to 50s. Women get these masses more often than men. The masses are
often bigger in size.

Babies may develop a type of hepatic hemangioma called benign infantile
hemangioendothelioma. This is also known as multinodular hepatic
hemangiomatosis. This is a rare, noncancerous tumor that has been linked to
high rates of heart failure and death in infants. Infants are most often
diagnosed by the time they are 6 months old.

## Symptoms

Some hemangiomas may cause bleeding or interfere with organ function. Most do
not produce symptoms. In rare cases, the hemangioma may rupture.

## Exams and Tests

In most cases, the condition is not found until liver images are taken for
some other reason. If the hemangioma ruptures, the only sign may be an
enlarged liver.

Babies with benign infantile hemangioendothelioma may have:

    * A growth in the abdomen
    * Anemia
    * Signs of heart failure

The following tests may be performed:

    * Blood tests
    * CT scan of the liver
    * Hepatic angiogram
    * MRI
    * Single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT)
    * Ultrasound of the abdomen

## Treatment

Most of these tumors are treated only if there is ongoing pain.

Treatment for infantile hemangioendothelioma depends on the child's growth and
development. The following treatments may be needed:

    * Inserting a material in a blood vessel of the liver to block it (embolization)
    * Tying off (ligation) a liver artery
    * Medicines for heart failure
    * Surgery to remove the tumor 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Surgery can cure a tumor in an infant if it is only in one lobe of the liver.
This can be done even if the child has heart failure.

## Possible Complications

Pregnancy and estrogen-based medicines can cause these tumors to grow.

The tumor may rupture in rare cases.

## Alternative Names

Liver hemangioma; Hemangioma of the liver; Cavernous hepatic hemangioma;
Infantile hemangioendothelioma; Multinodular hepatic hemangiomatosis

## Images

    * ![Hemangioma - angiogram](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1165t.jpg)Hemangioma - angiogram
    * ![Hemangioma - CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1166t.jpg)Hemangioma - CT scan
    * ![Digestive system organs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8710t.jpg)Digestive system organs

## References

Di Bisceglie AM, Befeler AS. Hepatic tumors and cysts. In: Feldman M, Friedman
LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver
Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 96.

Mendes BC, Tollefson MM, Bower TC. Pediatric vascular tumors. In: Sidawy AN,
Perler BA, eds. _Rutherford's Vascular Surgery and Endovascular Therapy_. 9th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 188.

Soares KC, Pawlik TM. The management of liver hemangioma. In: Cameron JL,
Cameron AM, eds. _Current Surgical Therapy_. 12th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:349-354.

## Review Date 3/25/2019

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Benign Tumors](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BenignTumors_thumb.jpg)Benign
Tumors _Read more_

![Liver Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LiverDisease_thumb.jpg)Liver
Diseases _Read more_

![Vascular
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VascularDiseases_thumb.jpg)Vascular
Diseases _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

