Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001441.htm    
                                Description: A cherry angioma is a noncancerous (benign) skin growth made up of blood vessels.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cherry angioma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001441.htm

# Cherry angioma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A cherry angioma is a noncancerous (benign) skin growth made up of blood
vessels.

## Causes

Cherry angiomas are fairly common skin growths that vary in size. They can
occur almost anywhere on the body, but usually develop on the trunk.

They are most common after age 30. The cause is unknown, but they tend to be
inherited (genetic).

## Symptoms

A cherry angioma is:

    * Bright cherry-red
    * Small -- pinhead size to about one quarter inch (0.5 centimeter) in diameter
    * Smooth, or can stick out from the skin 

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will look at the growth on your skin to diagnose a
cherry angioma. No further tests are usually necessary. Sometimes a skin
biopsy is used to confirm the diagnosis.

## Treatment

Cherry angiomas usually do not need to be treated. If they affect your
appearance or bleed often, they may be removed by:

    * Burning (electrosurgery or cautery)
    * Freezing (cryotherapy)
    * Laser
    * Shave excision

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Cherry angiomas are noncancerous. They usually do not harm your health.
Removal usually does not cause scarring.

## Possible Complications

A cherry angioma may cause:

    * Bleeding if it is injured
    * Changes in appearance
    * Emotional distress 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You have symptoms of a cherry angioma and you would like to have it removed
    * The appearance of a cherry angioma (or any skin lesion) changes

## Alternative Names

Angioma - cherry; Senile angioma; Campbell de Morgan spots; de Morgan spots

## Images

    * ![Skin layers](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8912t.jpg)Skin layers

## References

Habif TP. Vascular tumors and malformations. In: Habif TP, ed. _Clinical
Dermatology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 23.

Patterson JW. Vascular tumors. In: Patterson JW, ed. _Weedon's Skin
Pathology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 38.

## Review Date 10/14/2018

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Benign Tumors](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BenignTumors_thumb.jpg)Benign
Tumors _Read more_

![Birthmarks](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BirthMarks_thumb.jpg)Birthmarks
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

