Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001641.htm    
                                Description: Nasal polyps are soft, sac-like growths on the lining of the nose or sinuses.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Nasal polyps

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001641.htm

# Nasal polyps

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Nasal polyps are soft, sac-like growths on the lining of the nose or sinuses.

## Causes

Nasal polyps can grow anywhere on the lining of the nose or the sinuses. They
often grow where the sinuses open into the nasal cavity. Small polyps may not
cause any problems. Large polyps can block your sinuses or nasal airway.

Nasal polyps are not cancer. They seem to grow due to long-term swelling and
irritation in the nose from allergies, asthma, or infection.

No one knows exactly why some people get nasal polyps. If you have any of the
following conditions, you may be more likely to get nasal polyps:

    * Aspirin sensitivity
    * Asthma
    * Long-term (chronic) sinus infections
    * Cystic fibrosis
    * Hay fever

## Symptoms

If you have small polyps, you may not have any symptoms. If polyps block nasal
passages, a sinus infection can develop.

Symptoms include:

    * Runny nose
    * Stuffed up nose
    * Sneezing
    * Feeling like your nose is blocked
    * Loss of smell
    * Loss of taste
    * Headache and pain if you also have a sinus infection 

With polyps, you may feel like you always have a head cold.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will look in your nose. Polyps look like a grayish
grape-shaped growth in the nasal cavity.

You may have a CT scanÂ of your sinuses. Polyps will appear as cloudy spots.
Older polyps may have broken down some of the bone inside your sinuses.

## Treatment

Medicines help relieve symptoms, but rarely get rid of nasal polyps.

    * Nasal steroid sprays shrink polyps. They help clear blocked nasal passages and runny nose. Symptoms return if treatment is stopped.
    * Corticosteroid pills or liquid may also shrink polyps, and can reduce swelling and nasal congestion. The effect lasts a few months in most cases.
    * Allergy medicines can help prevent polyps from growing back.
    * Antibiotics can treat a sinus infection caused by bacteria. They can't treat polyps or sinus infections caused by a virus.

If medicines don't work, or you have very large polyps, you may need surgery
to remove them.

    * Endoscopic sinus surgery is often used to treat polyps. With this procedure, your doctor uses a thin, lighted tube with instruments at the end. The tube is inserted into your nasal passages and the doctor removes the polyps.
    * Usually you can go home the same day.
    * Sometimes, polyps come back, even after surgery.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Removing polyps with surgery often makes it easier to breathe through your
nose. Over time, however, nasal polyps often return.

Loss of smell or taste does not always improve following treatment with
medicine or surgery.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Bleeding
    * Infection
    * Polyps coming back after treatment 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you often find it hard to breathe through your nose.

## Prevention

You can't prevent nasal polyps. However, nasal sprays, antihistamines, and
allergy shots may help prevent polyps that block your airway.Â Newer
treatments such as injection therapy with anti-IGE antibodies may help prevent
polyps from coming back.Â

Treating sinus infections right away also may help.

## Images

    * ![Throat anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1118t.jpg)Throat anatomy
    * ![Nasal polyps](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9226t.jpg)Nasal polyps

## References

Bachert C, Calus L, Gevaert P. Rhinosinusitis and nasal polyps. In: Adkinson
NF, Bochner BS, Burks AW, et al, eds. _Middleton's Allergy: Principles and
Practice_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 43.Â

Rosenfeld RM, Piccirillo JF, Chandrasekhar SS, et al. Clinical practice
guideline (update): adult sinusitis executive summary. _Otolaryngol Head Neck
Surg_. 2015;152(4):598-609. PMID: 25833927
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25833927.

Soler ZM, Smith TL. Results of medical and surgical treatment of chronic
rhinosinusitis with and without nasal polyps. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund
V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head & Neck Surgery_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 44.

## Review Date 8/1/2017

Updated by: Ashutosh Kacker, MD, FACS, Professor of Clinical Otolaryngology,
Weill Cornell Medical College, and Attending Otolaryngologist, New York-
Presbyterian Hospital, New York, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Benign Tumors](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BenignTumors_thumb.jpg)Benign
Tumors _Read more_

![Nose Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NoseInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Nose
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

