Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000842.htm    
                                Description: An epidermoid cyst is a closed sac under the skin, or a skin lump, filled with dead skin cells.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Epidermoid cyst

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000842.htm

# Epidermoid cyst

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An epidermoid cyst is a closed sac under the skin, or a skin lump, filled with
dead skin cells.

## Causes

Epidermal cysts are very common. Their cause is unknown. The cysts are formed
when the surface skin is folded in on itself. The cyst then becomes filled
with dead skin because as the skin grows, it can't be shed as it can elsewhere
on the body. When a cyst reaches a certain size, it usually stops growing.

People with these cysts may have family members who also have them.

These cysts are more common in adults than in children.

Sometimes, epidermal cysts are called sebaceous cysts. This is not correct
because the contents of the two types of cysts are different. Epidermal cysts
are filled with dead skin cells, while true sebaceous cysts are filled with
yellowish oily material. (A true sebaceous cyst is called a steatocystoma.)

## Symptoms

The main symptom is usually a small, non-painful lump beneath the skin. The
lump is usually found on the face, neck, and trunk. It will often have a tiny
hole or pit in the center. It usually grows slowly and is not painful.

If the lump becomes infected or inflamed, other symptoms may include:

    * Skin redness
    * Tender or sore skin
    * Warm skin in the affected area
    * Grayish-white, cheesy, foul-smelling material that drains from the cyst 

## Exams and Tests

In most cases, the health care providerÂ can make a diagnosisÂ by examining
your skin. Sometimes, a biopsy may be needed to rule out other conditions. If
infection is suspected, you may need to have a skin culture.

## Treatment

Epidermal cysts are not dangerous and do not need to be treated unless they
cause symptoms or show signs of inflammation (redness or tenderness). If this
occurs, your provider may suggest home care by placing a warm moist cloth
(compress) over the area to help the cyst drain and heal.

A cyst may need further treatment if it becomes:

    * Inflamed and swollen -- the provider may inject the cyst with steroid medicine
    * Swollen, tender, or large -- the provider may drain the cyst or do surgery to remove it
    * Infected -- you may be prescribed antibiotics to take by mouth 

## Possible Complications

Cysts may become infected and form painful abscesses.

Cysts may return if they are not completely removed by surgery.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you notice any new growths on your body. Although cysts
are not harmful, your provider should examine you for signs of skin cancer.
Some skin cancers look like cystic nodules, so have any new lump examined by
your provider. If you do have a cyst, call your provider if it becomes red or
painful.

## Alternative Names

Epidermal cyst; Keratin cyst; Epidermal inclusion cyst; Follicular
infundibular cyst

## References

Habif TP. Benign skin tumors. In: Habif TP, ed. _Clinical Dermatology: A Color
Guide to Diagnosis and Therapy_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap
20.

James WD, Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach MA, Neuhaus IM. Epidermal nevi,
neoplasms, and cysts. In: James WD, Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach MA, Neuhaus
IM, eds. _Andrews' Diseases of the Skin_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2020:chap 29.

Patterson JW. Cysts, sinuses, and pits. In: Patterson JW, ed. _Weedon's Skin
Pathology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone;
2016:chap 16.

## Review Date 4/16/2019

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Benign Tumors](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BenignTumors_thumb.jpg)Benign
Tumors _Read more_

![Skin
Conditions](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinConditions2_thumb.jpg)Skin
Conditions _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

