Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001310.htm    
                                Description: A tumor is an abnormal growth of body tissue. Tumors can be cancerous (malignant) or noncancerous (benign).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Tumor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001310.htm

# Tumor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A tumor is an abnormal growth of body tissue. Tumors can be cancerous
(malignant) or noncancerous (benign).

## Causes

In general, tumors occur when cells divide and grow excessively in the body.Â
Normally, the body controls cell growth and division. New cells are created to
replace older ones or to perform new functions. Cells that are damaged or no
longer needed die to make room for healthy replacements.

If the balance of cell growth and death is disturbed, a tumor may form.

Problems with the body's immune system can lead to tumors. Tobacco causes more
deaths from cancer than any other environmental substance. OtherÂ risk factors
for cancerÂ include:

    * Benzene and other chemicals and toxins
    * Drinking too much alcohol
    * Environmental toxins, such as certain poisonous mushrooms and a type of poison that can grow on peanut plants (aflatoxins)
    * Excessive sunlight exposure
    * Genetic problems
    * Obesity
    * Radiation exposure
    * Viruses

Types of tumors known to be caused by or linked with viruses are:

    * Cervical cancer (human papillomavirus)
    * Most anal cancers (human papillomavirus)
    * Some throat cancers, including soft palate, base of tongue and tonsils (human papillomavirus)
    * Some vaginal, vulvar, and penile cancers (human papillomavirus)
    * Some liver cancers (hepatitis B and hepatitis C viruses)
    * Kaposi sarcoma (human herpesvirus 8)
    * Adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma (human T-lymphotropic virus-1)
    * Merkel cell carcinoma (Merkel cell polyomavirus)

Some tumors are more common in one sex than the other. Some are more common
among children or older adults. Others are related to diet, environment, and
family history.

## Symptoms

Symptoms depend on the type and location of the tumor. For example, lung
tumors may cause coughing, shortness of breath, or chest pain. Tumors of the
colon can cause weight loss, diarrhea, constipation, iron deficiency anemia,
and blood in the stool.

Some tumors may not cause any symptoms. Others, such as pancreatic cancer, DO
NOT usually cause symptoms until the disease has reached an advanced stage.

The following symptoms may occur with tumors:

    * Fever orÂ chills
    * Fatigue
    * Loss of appetite
    * Night sweats
    * Weight loss
    * Pain

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider might see a tumor,Â such as skin cancer. But most
cancers can't be seen during an exam because they are deep inside the body.

When a tumor is found, a piece of the tissue is removed and examined under a
microscope. This is called aÂ biopsy. It is done to determine if the tumor is
noncancerous (benign) or cancerous (malignant). Depending on the location of
the tumor, the biopsy may be a simple procedure or a serious operation.

A CT or MRI scan can help determine the exact location of the tumor and how
far it has spread. Another imaging test called positron emission tomography
(PET) is used to find certain tumor types.

Other tests that may be doneÂ include:

    * Blood tests
    * Bone marrow biopsy (most often for lymphoma or leukemia)
    * Chest x-ray
    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * Liver function tests

## Treatment

Treatment varies based on:

    * Type of tumor
    * Whether it is cancer 
    * Location of the tumor

You may not need treatment if the tumor is:

    * Noncancerous (benign)Â 
    * InÂ a "safe" area where it will not cause symptoms or problems with the way an organ works 

Sometimes benign tumors may be removed for cosmetic reasons or to improve
symptoms. Benign tumors of the brain may be removed because of their location
or harmful effect on the surrounding normal brain tissue.

If a tumor is cancer, possible treatments mayÂ include:

    * Chemotherapy
    * Radiation
    * Surgery
    * Targeted cancer therapy
    * Immunotherapy
    * Other treatment options

## Support Groups

A cancer diagnosis often causes a lot of anxiety and can affect a person's
entire life. There are many resources for cancer patients.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outlook varies greatly for different types of tumors. If the tumor is
benign, the outlook is generally very good.Â But a benign tumor can sometimes
causeÂ severe problems, such as in the brain.

If the tumor is cancerous, the outcome depends on the type and stage of the
tumor at diagnosis. Some cancers can be cured. Some that are not curable can
still be treated, andÂ people can live for many years with the cancer. Still
other tumors are quickly life threatening.

## Alternative Names

Mass; Neoplasm

## References

Black AR, Cowan KH. Cancer biology and genetics. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI,
eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 181.

Gala MK, Chung DC. Cellular growth and neoplasia. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS,
Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver
Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 1.

Maxwell PJ, Isenberg GA. Tumors of the colon and rectum. In: Kellerman RD,
Bope ET, eds. _Conn's Current Therapy 2018_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:
pp 248-252.

National Cancer Institute website. Symptoms of cancer. www.cancer.gov/about-
cancer/diagnosis-staging/symptoms. Updated March 29, 2018. Accessed September
5, 2018.

Nussbaum RL, McInnes RR, Willard HF. Cancer genetics and genomics. In:
Nussbaum RL, McInnes RR, Willard HF, eds. _Thompson & Thompson Genetics in
Medicine_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 15.

## Review Date 7/12/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Benign Tumors](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BenignTumors_thumb.jpg)Benign
Tumors _Read more_

![Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cancer_thumb.jpg)Cancer _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

