Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000387.htm    
                                Description: An insulinoma is a tumor in the pancreas that produces too much insulin.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Insulinoma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000387.htm

# Insulinoma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An insulinoma is a tumor in the pancreas that produces too much insulin.

## Causes

The pancreas is an organ in the abdomen. The pancreas makes several enzymes
and hormones, including the hormone insulin. Insulin's job is to reduce the
level of sugar (glucose) in the blood by helping sugar move into cells.

Most of the time when your blood sugar level decreases, the pancreas stops
making insulin to make sure that your blood sugar stays in the normal range.
Tumors of the pancreas that produce too much insulin are called insulinomas.
Insulinomas keep making insulin, and can make your blood sugar drops too low
(hypoglycemia).

A high blood insulin level causes a low blood sugar level (hypoglycemia).
Hypoglycemia may be mild, leading to symptoms such as anxiety and hunger. Or
it can be severe, leading to seizures, coma, and even death.

Insulinomas are very rare tumors. They usually occur as single, small tumors.
But there can also be several small tumors.

Most insulinomas are non-cancerous (benign) tumors. People with certain
genetic disorders, such as multiple endocrine neoplasia type I, are at higher
risk for insulinomas.

## Symptoms

Symptoms are most common when you skip or delay a meal. Symptoms may include:

    * Anxiety, behavior changes, or confusion
    * Clouded vision
    * Loss of consciousness or coma
    * Convulsions or tremor
    * Dizziness or headache
    * Hunger or weight gain
    * Fast heart rate or palpitations
    * Sweating

## Exams and Tests

After fasting, your blood may be tested for:

    * Blood C-peptide level
    * Blood glucose level
    * Blood insulin level
    * Drugs that cause the pancreas to release insulin 
    * The response of your body to a shot of glucagon  

CT, MRI, or PET scan of the abdomen may be done to look for a tumor in the
pancreas.Â If a tumor is not seen in the scans, one of the following tests may
be performed:

    * Endoscopic ultrasoundÂ (test that uses a flexible scope and sound waves to view digestive organs)
    * Octreotide scan (special test that checks for cancer cells in the body)
    * Pancreatic arteriography (test that uses special dye to view the arteries in the pancreas)
    * Pancreatic venous sampling for insulin (test that helps locate the exact location of the tumor that is making too much insulin)

## Treatment

Surgery is the usual treatment for insulinoma. If there is a single tumor, it
will be removed. If there are many tumors, part of the pancreas will need to
be removed. At least 15% of the pancreas must be left to produce normal levels
of enzymes for digestion.

In rare cases, the entire pancreas is removed if there are many insulinomas or
they continue to come back. Removing the entire pancreas leads to diabetes
because there is no longer any insulin being produced. Insulin shots
(injections) are then required.

If no tumor is found during surgery, or if you can't have surgery, you may get
the medicine diazoxide to lower insulin production and prevent hypoglycemia. A
water pill (diuretic) is given with this medicine to prevent the body from
retaining fluid. Octreotide is another medicine that is used to reduce insulin
release in some people.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

In most cases, the tumor is non-cancerous (benign), and surgery can cure the
disease. But a severe hypoglycemic reaction or the spread of a cancerous tumor
to other organs can be life-threatening.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Severe hypoglycemic reaction
    * Spread of a cancerous tumor (metastasis)
    * Diabetes if the entire pancreas is removed (rare), or food not being absorbed if too much of the pancreas is removed
    * Inflammation and swelling of the pancreas

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you develop any symptoms of insulinoma.
Seizures and losing consciousness are an emergency. Call 911 or your local
emergency number right away.

## Alternative Names

Insulinoma; Islet cell adenoma, Pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor; Hypoglycemia
- insulinoma

## Images

    * ![Endocrine glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1093t.jpg)Endocrine glands
    * ![Food and insulin release](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8812t.jpg)Food and insulin release

## References

Jensen RT, Norton JA, Oberg K. Neuroendocrine tumors. In: Feldman M, Friedman
LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver
Disease: Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 33.

National Comprehensive Cancer Network website. NCCN clinical practice
guidelines in oncology (NCCN guidelines): neuroendocrine and adrenal tumors.
Version 2.2018.
www.nccn.org/professionals/physician_gls/pdf/neuroendocrine.pdf. Updated May
4, 2018. Accessed September 26, 2018.

Schneider DF, Mazeh H, Lubner SJ, Jaume JC, Chen H. Cancer of the endocrine
system. In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Doroshow JH, Kastan MB, Tepper JE,
eds. _Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Churchill Livingstone; 2014:chap 71.

## Review Date 8/19/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Benign Tumors](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BenignTumors_thumb.jpg)Benign
Tumors _Read more_

![Pancreatic
Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PancreaticCancer_thumb.jpg)Pancreatic
Cancer _Read more_

![Pancreatic
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PancreaticDiseases_thumb.jpg)Pancreatic
Diseases _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

