Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001611.htm    
                                Description: A lacrimal gland tumor is a tumor in one of the glands that produces tears. The lacrimal gland is located under the outer part of each eyebrow. Lacrimal gland tumors can be harmless (benign) or cancerous    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Lacrimal gland tumor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001611.htm

# Lacrimal gland tumor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A lacrimal gland tumor is a tumor in one of the glands that produces tears.
The lacrimal gland is located under the outer part of each eyebrow. Lacrimal
gland tumors can be harmless (benign) or cancerous (malignant). About half of
lacrimal gland tumors are benign.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

    * Double vision
    * Fullness inÂ one eyelid or the side of the face
    * Pain 

## Exams and Tests

You may first be examined by an eye doctor (ophthalmologist). You may then be
evaluated by a head and neck doctor (otolaryngologist, or ENT), or a doctor
who specializes in problems with the bony eye socket (orbit).

Tests most often include a CT or MRI scan.

## Treatment

Most lacrimal gland tumors will need to be removed with surgery. Cancerous
tumors may need other treatment too, such as radiation or chemotherapy.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outlook is most often excellent for noncancerous growths. The outlook for
cancer depends on the type of cancer and stage at which it is discovered.

## Images

    * ![Lacrimal gland anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8829t.jpg)Lacrimal gland anatomy

## References

Cioffi GA, Liebmann JM. Diseases of the visual system. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2020:chap 395.

Dutton JJ. Orbital diseases. In: Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds. _Ophthalmology_. 5th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 12.10.

Houghton O, Gordon K. Ocular tumors. In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Kastan
MB, Doroshow JH, Tepper JE, eds. _Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 64.

Strianese D, Bonavolonta G, Dolman PJ, Fay A. Lacrimal gland tumors. In: Fay
A, Dolman PJ, eds. _Diseases and Disorders of the Orbit and Ocular Adnexa_.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 17.

## Review Date 8/8/2019

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Benign Tumors](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BenignTumors_thumb.jpg)Benign
Tumors _Read more_

![Eye Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EyeCancer_thumb.jpg)Eye Cancer
_Read more_

![Tears](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Tears_thumb.jpg)Tears _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

