Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001572.htm    
                                Description: Juvenile angiofibroma is a noncancerous growth that causes bleeding in the nose and sinuses. It is most often seen in boys and young adult men.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Juvenile angiofibroma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001572.htm

# Juvenile angiofibroma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Juvenile angiofibroma is a noncancerous growth that causes bleeding in the
nose and sinuses. It is most often seen in boys and young adult men.

## Causes

Juvenile angiofibroma is not very common. It is most often found in adolescent
boys. The tumor contains many blood vessels, spreads within the area in which
it started (locally invasive), and can cause bone damage.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

    * Difficulty breathing through the nose
    * Easy bruising
    * Frequent or repeated nosebleeds
    * Hearing loss
    * Nasal discharge, usually bloody
    * Prolonged bleeding
    * Stuffy nose

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider may see the angiofibroma when examining the upper
throat.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Arteriogram to see the blood supply to the growth
    * CT scan of the head
    * MRI scan of the head
    * X-ray

Biopsy is generally not recommended due to the high risk of bleeding.

## Treatment

You will need treatment if the angiofibroma is growing larger, blocking the
airways, or causing repeated nosebleeds. In some cases, no treatment is
needed.

Surgery may be needed to remove the tumor. The tumor may be hard to remove if
it is not enclosed and has spread to other areas. Newer surgery techniques
that place a camera up through the nose have made tumor removal surgery less
invasive.

A procedure called embolization may be done to prevent the tumor from
bleeding. The procedure may correct the nosebleeds by itself, but it is most
often followed by surgery to remove the tumor.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Although not cancerous, angiofibromas may continue to grow. Some may disappear
on their own.

It is common for the tumor to return after surgery.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Anemia
    * Pressure on the brain (rare)
    * Spread of the tumor to the nose, sinuses, and other structures

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you often have nosebleeds.

## Prevention

There is no known way to prevent this condition.

## Alternative Names

Nasal tumor; Angiofibroma - juvenile; Benign nasal tumor; Juvenile nasal
angiofibroma; JNA

## Images

    * ![Tuberous sclerosis, angiofibromas  - face](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2367t.jpg)Tuberous sclerosis, angiofibromas - face

## References

Haddad J, Keesecker S. Acquired disorders of the nose. In: Kliegman RM,
Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 377.

Nicolai P, Castelnuovo P. Benign tumors of the sinonasal tract. In: Flint PW,
Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head & Neck
Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 48.

## Review Date 8/1/2017

Updated by: Ashutosh Kacker, MD, FACS, Professor of Clinical Otolaryngology,
Weill Cornell Medical College, and Attending Otolaryngologist, New York-
Presbyterian Hospital, New York, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Benign Tumors](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BenignTumors_thumb.jpg)Benign
Tumors _Read more_

![Nose Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NoseInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Nose
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

