Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003415.htm    
                                Description: A polyp biopsy is a test that takes a sample of, or removes polyps (abnormal growths) for examination.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Polyp biopsy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003415.htm

# Polyp biopsy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A polyp biopsy is a test that takes a sample of, or removes polyps (abnormal
growths) for examination.

## How the Test is Performed

Polyps are growths of tissue that may be attached by a stalk-like structure (a
pedicle).Â Polyps are commonly found in organs with many blood vessels. Such
organs include the uterus, colon, and nose.

Some polyps are cancerous (malignant) and the cancer cells areÂ likely to
spread. Most polyps are noncancerous (benign). The most common site of polyps
that are treated is the colon.

How a polyp biopsy isÂ done depends on the location:

    * Colonoscopy or flexible sigmoidoscopy explores the large bowel
    * Colposcopy-directed biopsy examines the vagina and cervix
    * Esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) or other endoscopy is used for the throat, stomach, and small bowel
    * Laryngoscopy is used for the nose and throat

For areas of the body that can be seen or where the polyp can be felt, a
numbing medicine is applied to the skin. Then a small piece of the tissue that
appears to be abnormal is removed. This tissue is sent to a laboratory. There,
it is tested to see if it is cancerous.

## How to Prepare for the Test

If the biopsy is in the nose or another surface that is open or can be seen,
no special preparation is needed. Your health care provider will tell you if
you need to not eat or drink anything (fast) before the biopsy.

More preparation is needed for biopsies inside the body. For example, if you
have a biopsy of the stomach, you should not eat anything for several hours
before the procedure.Â If you are having a colonoscopy, a solution to clean
your bowels is needed before the procedure.

Follow your provider's preparation instructions exactly.

## How the Test will Feel

For polyps on the skin surface, you may feel tugging while the biopsy sample
is being taken. After the numbing medicine wears off, the area may be sore for
a few days.

Biopsies of polyps inside the body are done during procedures such as EGD or
colonoscopy. Usually, you will not feel anything during or after the biopsy.

## Why the Test is Performed

The test is done to determine if the growth is cancerous (malignant). The
procedure may also be done to relieve symptoms, such as with the removal of
nasal polyps.

## Normal Results

Examination of the biopsy sample shows the polyp to be benign (not cancerous).

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Cancer cells are present. This may be a sign of a cancerous tumor. Further
tests may be needed. Often, the polyp may need more treatment. This is to
ensure it is completely removed.

## Risks

Risks include:

    * Bleeding
    * Hole (perforation) in organ
    * Infection

## Alternative Names

Biopsy - polyps

## References

Bachert C, Calus L, Gevaert P. Rhinosinusitis and nasal polyps. In: Adkinson
NF, Bochner BS, Burks AW, et al, eds. _Middleton's Allergy: Principles and
Practice_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 43.

Carlson SM, Goldberg J, Lentz GM. Endoscopy: hysteroscopy and laparoscopy:
indications, contraindications, and complications. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM,
Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 10.

Pohl H, Draganov P, Soetikno R, Kaltenbach T. Colonoscopic polypectomy,
mucosal resection, and submucosal resection. In: Chandrasekhara V, Elmunzer
BJ, Khashab MA, Muthusamy VR, eds. _Clinical Gastrointestinal Endoscopy_. 3rd
ed. Philadelphia, PA; 2019:chap 37.

Samlan RA, Kunduk M. Visualization of the larynx. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH,
Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head and Neck Surgery_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 55.

## Review Date 1/15/2019

Updated by: Denis Hadjiliadis, MD, MHS, Paul F. Harron Jr. Associate Professor
of Medicine, Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care, Perelman School of
Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. Also reviewed by David
Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Benign Tumors](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BenignTumors_thumb.jpg)Benign
Tumors _Read more_

![Biopsy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Biopsy_thumb.jpg)Biopsy _Read more_

![Colonic
Polyps](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ColonicPolyps_thumb.jpg)Colonic Polyps
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

