Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001464.htm    
                                Description: Pyogenic granulomas are small, raised, and red bumps on the skin. The bumps have a smooth surface and may be moist. They bleed easily because of the high number of blood vessels at the site. It is a benign    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pyogenic granuloma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001464.htm

# Pyogenic granuloma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pyogenic granulomas are small, raised, and red bumps on the skin. The bumps
have a smooth surface and may be moist. They bleed easily because of the high
number of blood vessels at the site. It is a benign (noncancerous) growth.

## Causes

The exact cause of pyogenic granulomas is unknown. They often appear following
an injury on the hands, arms, or face.

The lesions are common in children and pregnant women. (A skin lesion is an
area of the skin that is different than the surrounding skin.)

## Symptoms

Signs of a pyrogenic granuloma are:

    * A small red lump on the skinÂ that bleeds easily
    * Often found at the site of a recent injury
    * Usually seen on hands, arms, and face, butÂ they may develop in the mouth (most often in pregnant women) 

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will do a physical exam to diagnose this condition.

You may also need a skin biopsy to confirm the diagnosis.

## Treatment

Small pyogenic granulomas may go away suddenly. Larger bumps are treated with:

    * Surgical shaving or excision
    * Electrocautery (heat) 
    * Freezing
    * A laser
    * Creams applied to the skin (may not be as effective as surgery)

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most pyogenic granulomas can be removed. A scar may remain after treatment.
There is a high chance that the problem will come back if the whole lesion is
not destroyed during treatment.

## Possible Complications

These problems may occur:

    * Bleeding from the lesion
    * Return of the condition after treatment 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have a skin bump that bleeds easily or that changes
appearance.

## Alternative Names

Lobular capillary hemangioma

## Images

    * ![Pyogenic granuloma - close-up](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1958t.jpg)Pyogenic granuloma - close-up
    * ![Pyogenic granuloma on the hand](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2465t.jpg)Pyogenic granuloma on the hand

## References

Habif TP. Vascular tumors and malformations. In: Habif TP, ed. _Clinical
Dermatology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 23.

Patterson JW. Vascular tumors. In: Patterson J, ed. _Weedon's Skin Pathology_.
4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 38.

## Review Date 10/14/2018

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Benign Tumors](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BenignTumors_thumb.jpg)Benign
Tumors _Read more_

![Skin
Conditions](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinConditions2_thumb.jpg)Skin
Conditions _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

