Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007216.htm    
                                Description: Fibroadenoma of the breast is a benign tumor. Benign tumor means it is not a cancer.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Fibroadenoma of the breast

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007216.htm

# Fibroadenoma of the breast

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Fibroadenoma of the breast is a benign tumor. Benign tumor means it is not a
cancer.

## Causes

The cause of fibroadenomas is not known. They may be related to hormones.
Girls who are going through puberty and women who are pregnant are most often
affected. Fibroadenomas are found much less often in older women who have gone
through menopause.

Fibroadenoma is the most common benign tumor of the breast. It is the most
common breast tumor in women under age 30.

A fibroadenoma is made up of breast gland tissue and tissue that helps support
the breast gland tissue.

## Symptoms

Fibroadenomas are usually single lumps. Some women have several lumps that may
affect both breasts.

The lumps may be any of the following:

    * Easily moveable under the skin
    * Firm
    * Painless
    * Rubbery 

The lumps have smooth, well-defined borders. They may grow in size, especially
during pregnancy. Fibroadenomas often get smaller after menopause (if a woman
is not taking hormone therapy).

## Exams and Tests

After a physical exam, one or both of the following tests are usually done:

    * Breast ultrasound
    * Mammogram

A biopsy may be done to get a definite diagnosis. Different types of biopsies
include:

    * Excisional (removal of the lump by a surgeon)
    * Stereotactic (needle biopsy using a machine like a mammogram)
    * Ultrasound-guided (needle biopsy using ultrasound) 

Women in their teens or early 20s may not need a biopsy if the lump goes away
on its own or if the lump does not change over a long period.

## Treatment

If a needle biopsy shows that the lump is a fibroadenoma, the lump may be left
in place or removed.

You and your health care provider can discuss whether or not to remove the
lump. Reasons to have it removed include:

    * Results of needle biopsy are not clear
    * Pain or other symptom
    * Concern about cancer
    * The lump gets larger over time

If the lump is not removed, your provider will watch to see if it changes or
grows. This may be done using:

    * Mammogram
    * Physical examination
    * Ultrasound 

Sometimes, the lump is destroyed without removing it:

    * Cryoablation destroys the lump by freezing it. A probe is inserted through the skin, and ultrasound helps the provider guide it to the lump. Gas is used to freeze and destroy the lump.
    * Radiofrequency ablation destroys the lump using high-frequency energy. The provider uses ultrasound to help focus the energy beam on the lump. These waves heat the lump and destroy it without affecting nearby tissues. 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

If the lump is left in place and watched carefully, it may need to be removed
at a later time if it changes or grows.

In very rare cases, the lump is cancer, and will need further treatment.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you notice:

    * Any new breast lumps
    * A breast lump that your provider has checked before that grows or changes
    * Bruising on your breast for no reason
    * Dimpled or wrinkled skin (like an orange) on your breast
    * Nipple changes or nipple discharge

## Alternative Names

Breast lump - fibroadenoma; Breast lump - noncancerous; Breast lump - benign

## References

Expert Panel on Breast Imaging:, Moy L, Heller SL, Bailey L, et al. ACR
Appropriateness Criteria palpable breast masses. _J Am Coll Radiol_.
2017;14(5S):S203-S224. PMID: 28473077 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28473077.

Hacker NF, Friedlander ML. Breast disease: a gynecologic perspective. In:
Hacker NF, Gambone JC, Hobel CJ, eds. _Hacker and Moore's Essentials of
Obstetrics and Gynecology._ 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 30.

Liu J, Jacobs LK. The management of benign breast disease. In: Cameron JL,
Cameron AM, eds. _Current Surgical Therapy._ 12th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:657-659.

## Review Date 1/7/2018

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Internal review
and update on 04/15/2019 by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Benign Tumors](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BenignTumors_thumb.jpg)Benign
Tumors _Read more_

![Breast
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BreastDiseases_thumb.jpg)Breast
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

