Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001459.htm    
                                Description: A hemangioma is an abnormalÂ buildup of blood vessels in the skin or internal organs.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hemangioma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001459.htm

# Hemangioma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A hemangioma is an abnormalÂ buildup of blood vessels in the skin or internal
organs.

## Causes

AboutÂ one third ofÂ hemangiomas are present at birth. The rest appear in the
first several months of life.

The hemangioma may be:

    * In the top skin layers (capillary hemangioma)
    * Deeper in the skin (cavernous hemangioma)
    * A mixture of both

## Symptoms

Symptoms of a hemangioma are:

    * A red to reddish-purple, raised sore (lesion) on the skin
    * A massive, raised, tumor with blood vessels 

Most hemangiomas are on the face and neck.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will do a physical exam to diagnose a hemangioma. If
the buildup of blood vessels is deep inside the body, a CT or MRI scan may be
needed.

A hemangioma may occur with other rare conditions. Other tests to check for
related problems may be done.

## Treatment

The majority of small or uncomplicated hemangiomas may not need treatment.
They often go away on their own and the appearance of the skin returns to
normal. Sometimes, a laser may be used to remove the small blood vessels.

Cavernous hemangiomas that involve the eyelid and block vision can be treated
with lasers or steroid injections to shrink them. This allows vision to
develop normally. Large cavernous hemangiomas or mixed hemangiomas may be
treated with steroids, taken by mouth or injected into the hemangioma.

Taking beta-blocker medicines may also help reduce the size of a hemangioma.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Small superficial hemangiomas will often disappear on their own. About one
halfÂ go away by age 5, and almost all disappear by age 7.

## Possible Complications

These complications can occur from a hemangioma:

    * Bleeding (especially if the hemangioma is injured)
    * Problems with breathing and eating
    * Psychological problems, from skin appearance
    * Secondary infections and sores
    * Visible changes in the skin
    * Vision problems 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

All birthmarks, including hemangiomas, should be evaluated by your provider
during a regular exam.

Hemangiomas of the eyelid that may cause problems with vision must be treated
soon after birth. Hemangiomas that interfere with eating or breathing also
need to be treated early.

Call your provider if a hemangioma is bleeding or develops a sore.

## Prevention

There is no known way to prevent hemangiomas.

## Alternative Names

Cavernous hemangioma; Strawberry nevus; Birthmark - hemangioma

## Images

    * ![Hemangioma - angiogram](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1165t.jpg)Hemangioma - angiogram
    * ![Hemangioma on the face \(nose\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2426t.jpg)Hemangioma on the face (nose)
    * ![Circulatory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8747t.jpg)Circulatory system
    * ![Hemangioma excision](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9387t.jpg)Hemangioma excision

## References

Habif TP. Vascular tumors and malformations. In: Habif TP, ed. _Clinical
Dermatology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 23.

Martin KL. Vascular disorders. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor
NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 650.

Patterson JW. Vascular tumors. In: Patterson JW, ed. _Weedon's Skin
Pathology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone;
2016:chap 38.

## Review Date 10/14/2018

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Benign Tumors](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BenignTumors_thumb.jpg)Benign
Tumors _Read more_

![Birthmarks](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BirthMarks_thumb.jpg)Birthmarks
_Read more_

![Vascular
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VascularDiseases_thumb.jpg)Vascular
Diseases _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

