Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003861.htm    
                                Description: An open lung biopsy is surgery to remove a small piece of tissue from the lung. The sample is then examined for cancer, infection, or lung disease.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Open lung biopsy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003861.htm

# Open lung biopsy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An open lung biopsy is surgery to remove a small piece of tissue from the
lung. The sample is then examined for cancer, infection, or lung disease.

## How the Test is Performed

An open lung biopsy is done in the hospital using general anesthesia. This
means you will be asleep and pain free. A tube will be placed through your
mouth down your throat to help you breathe.

The surgery is done in the following way:

    * After cleaning the skin, the surgeon makes a small cut in the left or right side of your chest.
    * The ribs are gently separated.
    * A viewing scope may be inserted through a small hole between the ribs to see the area to be biopsied.
    * Tissue is taken from the lung and sent to a laboratory for examination.
    * After surgery, the wound is closed with stitches.
    * Your surgeon may leave a small plastic tube in your chest to prevent air and fluid from building up.
The breathing tube may not be able to be removed right after surgery. So, you
may need to be on a breathing machineÂ for some time.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You should tell the health care provider if you are pregnant, allergic to any
medicines, or if you have a bleeding problem. Be sure to tell your provider
about all the medicines you take, including herbs, supplements, and those
bought without a prescription.

Follow your surgeon's instructions for not eating or drinking before the
procedure.

## How the Test will Feel

When you wake up after the procedure, you will feel drowsy for several hours.

There will be some tenderness and pain where the surgical cut is located. Most
surgeons inject a long-acting local anesthetic at the surgical cut site so
that you will have very little pain afterward.

You may have a sore throat from the tube. You can ease the pain by eating ice
chips.

## Why the Test is Performed

The open lung biopsy is done to evaluate lung problems seen on x-ray or CT
scan.

## Normal Results

The lungs and lung tissue will be normal.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be due to:

    * Benign (not cancerous) tumors
    * Cancer
    * Certain infections (bacterial, viral, or fungal)
    * Lung diseases (fibrosis) 

The procedure may help diagnose a number of different conditions, such as:

    * Rheumatoid lung disease
    * Sarcoidosis (inflammation that affects the lungs and other body tissues)
    * Granulomatosis with polyangiitis (inflammation of the blood vessels)
    * Pulmonary hypertension (high blood pressure in the arteries of the lungs) 

## Risks

There is a slight chance of:

    * Air leak
    * Excess blood loss
    * Infection
    * Injury to the lung
    * Pneumothorax (collapsed lung)

## Alternative Names

Biopsy - open lung

## Images

    * ![Lungs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1103t.jpg)Lungs
    * ![Incision for lung biopsy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8858t.jpg)Incision for lung biopsy

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Biopsy, site-specific - specimen. In: Chernecky CC,
Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:199-202.

Putnam JB. Lung, chest wall, pleura, and mediastinum. In: Townsend CM Jr,
Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 57.

## Review Date 10/23/2018

Updated by: Mary C. Mancini, MD, PhD, Director, Cardiothoracic Surgery,
Christus Highland Medical Center, Shreveport, LA. Review provided by VeriMed
Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Benign Tumors](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BenignTumors_thumb.jpg)Benign
Tumors _Read more_

![Biopsy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Biopsy_thumb.jpg)Biopsy _Read more_

![Lung Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LungCancer_thumb.jpg)Lung Cancer
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

