Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002927.htm    
                                Description: Intestinal obstruction repair is surgery to relieve a bowel obstruction. A bowel obstruction occurs when the contents of the intestines cannot pass through and exit the body. A complete obstruction is    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Intestinal obstruction repair

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002927.htm

# Intestinal obstruction repair

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Intestinal obstruction repair is surgery to relieve a bowel obstruction. A
bowel obstruction occurs when the contents of the intestines cannot pass
through and exit the body. A complete obstruction is a surgical emergency.

## Description

Intestinal obstruction repair is done while you are under general anesthesia.
This means you are asleep and DO NOT feel pain.

The surgeon makes a cut in your belly to see your intestines. Sometimes, the
surgery can be done using a laparoscope, which means smaller cuts are used.

The surgeon locates the area of your intestine (bowel) that is blocked and
unblocks it.

Any damaged parts of your bowel will be repaired or removed. This procedure is
called bowel resection. If a section is removed, the healthy ends will be
reconnected with stitches or staples. Sometimes, when part of the intestine is
removed, the ends cannot be reconnected. If this happens, the surgeon will
bring one end out through an opening in the abdominal wall. This may be done
using a colostomy or ileostomy.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

This procedure is done to relieve a blockage in your intestine. A blockage
that lasts for a long time can reduce or block blood flow to the area. This
can cause the bowel to die.

## Risks

Risks of anesthesia and surgery in general include:

    * Reactions to medicines, breathing problems
    * Bleeding, blood clots, infection 

Risks of this procedure:

    * Bowel obstruction after surgery
    * Damage to nearby organs in the body
    * Formation of scar tissue (adhesions)
    * More scar tissue forming in your belly and causing a blockage of your intestines in the future
    * Opening of the edges of your intestines that are sewn together (anastomotic leak), which may cause life-threatening problems
    * Problems with colostomy or ileostomy
    * Temporary paralysis (freezing up) of the bowel (paralytic ileus) 

## After the Procedure

How long it takes to recover depends on your overall health and the type of
operation.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome is usually good if the obstruction is treated before bowel blood
flow is affected.

People who have had many abdominal surgeries may form scar tissue. They are
more likely to have bowel obstructions in the future.

## Alternative Names

Repair of volvulus; Intestinal volvulus - repair; Bowel obstruction - repair

## Patient Instructions

    * Bland diet
    * Changing your ostomy pouch
    * Ileostomy and your diet
    * Ileostomy - caring for your stoma
    * Ileostomy - changing your pouch
    * Ileostomy - discharge
    * Ileostomy - what to ask your doctor 
    * Intestinal or bowel obstruction - discharge
    * Low-fiber diet
    * Surgical wound care - open
    * Types of ileostomy
    * When you have nausea and vomiting

## Images

    * ![Intussusception - X-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1172t.jpg)Intussusception - x-ray
    * ![Before and after small intestine anastomosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8924t.jpg)Before and after small intestine anastomosis
    * ![Intestinal obstruction \(pediatric\) - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/12681t.jpg)Intestinal obstruction (pediatric) - series
    * ![Intestinal obstruction repair - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/15873t.jpg)Intestinal obstruction repair - series

## References

Mahmoud NN, Bleier JIS, Aarons CB, Paulson EC, Shanmugan S, Fry RD. Colon and
rectum. In: Townsend CM, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston
Textbook of Surgery: The Biological Basis of Modern Surgical Practice_. 20th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 51.

Mizell JS, Turnage RH. Intestinal obstruction. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS,
Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 123.

## Review Date 1/7/2018

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Intestinal
Obstruction](https://medlineplus.gov/images/IntestinalObstruction_thumb.jpg)Intestinal
Obstruction _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

