Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000253.htm    
                                Description: Intestinal pseudo-obstruction is a condition in which there are symptoms of blockage of the intestine (bowels) without any physical blockage.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Intestinal pseudo-obstruction

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000253.htm

# Intestinal pseudo-obstruction

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Intestinal pseudo-obstruction is a condition in which there are symptoms of
blockage of the intestine (bowels) without any physical blockage.

## Causes

In intestinal pseudo-obstruction, the intestine is unable to contract and push
food, stool, and air through the digestive tract. The disorder most often
affects the small intestine, but can also occur in the large intestine.

The condition mayÂ start suddenly or be a chronic or long-term problem. It is
most common in children and older people. The cause of the problem is often
unknown.

Risk factors include:

    * Cerebral palsy or other brain or nervous system disorders.
    * Chronic kidney, lung, or heart disease.
    * Staying in bed for long periods of time (bedridden).
    * Taking drugs that slow intestinal movements. These include narcotic (pain) medicines and drugs used when you are not able to keep urine from leaking out.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

    * Abdominal pain
    * Bloating
    * Constipation
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Swollen abdomen (abdominal distention)
    * Weight loss

## Exams and Tests

During a physical exam, the health care provider will most often see abdominal
bloating.

Tests include:

    * Abdominal x-ray
    * Anorectal manometry
    * Barium swallow, barium small bowel follow-through, or barium enema
    * Blood tests for nutritional or vitamin deficiencies
    * Colonoscopy
    * CT scan
    * Antroduodenal manometry
    * Gastric emptying radionuclide scan
    * Intestinal radionuclide scan 

## Treatment

The following treatments may be tried:

    * Colonoscopy may be used to remove air from the large intestine.
    * Fluids can be given through a vein to replace fluids lost from vomiting or diarrhea.
    * Nasogastric suction involving a nasogastric (NG) tube placed through the nose into the stomach can be used to remove air from the bowel.
    * Neostigmine may be used to treat intestinal pseudo-obstruction that is only in the large bowel (Ogilvie syndrome).
    * Special diets often do not work. However, vitamin B12 and other vitamin supplements should be used for people with vitamin deficiency.
    * Stopping the medicines that may have caused the problem (such as narcotic drugs) may help.

In severe cases, surgery may be needed.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most cases of acute pseudo-obstruction get better in a few days with
treatment. In chronic forms of the disease, symptoms can come back and get
worse over many years.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Diarrhea
    * Rupture (perforation) of the intestine
    * Vitamin deficiencies
    * Weight loss

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have abdominal pain that does not go away or other
symptoms of this disorder.

## Alternative Names

Primary intestinal pseudo-obstruction; Acute colonic ileus; Colonic pseudo-
obstruction; Idiopathic intestinal pseudo-obstruction; Ogilvie syndrome;
Chronic intestinal pseudo-obstruction; Paralytic ileus - pseudo-obstruction

## Images

    * ![Digestive system organs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8710t.jpg)Digestive system organs

## References

Andrews JM, Brierley SM, Blackshaw LA. Small intestinal motor and sensory
function and dysfunction. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds.
_Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 99.

Camilleri M. Disorders of gastrointestinal motility. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 136.

Mahmoud NN, Bleier JIS, Aarons CB, Paulson EC, Shanmugan S, Fry RD. Colon and
rectum. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston
Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2017:chap
51.

## Review Date 4/7/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Colonic
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ColonicDiseases_thumb.jpg)Colonic
Diseases _Read more_

![Intestinal
Obstruction](https://medlineplus.gov/images/IntestinalObstruction_thumb.jpg)Intestinal
Obstruction _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

