Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000152.htm    
                                Description: You had surgery to remove all or part of your small intestine (small bowel). You may also have had an ileostomy.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Small bowel resection - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000152.htm

# Small bowel resection - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You had surgery to remove all or part of your small intestine (small bowel).
You may also have had an ileostomy.

## When You're in the Hospital

During and after surgery, you received intravenous (IV) fluids. You also may
have had a tube placed through your nose and into your stomach. You may have
received antibiotics.

## What to Expect at Home

You may have these problems after you return home from the hospital:

    * Pain when you cough, sneeze, and make sudden movements. This may last up to several weeks. 
    * You may have problems with greasy or bad smelling stools or diarrhea if a large section of your small intestine was taken out.
    * You may have problems with your ileostomy.

## Self-care

Follow your health care provider's instructions for how to take care of
yourself at home.

Activity:

    * It may take several weeks for you to get back to your normal activities. Ask your provider if there are activities you should not do.
    * Start by taking short walks.
    * Increase your activity slowly. DO NOT push yourself too hard.

Your doctor will give you pain medicines to take at home.

    * If you are taking pain medicines 3 or 4 times a day, take them at the same times each day for 3 to 4 days. They control pain better this way.Â Ask your provider if you can take acetaminophen (Tylenol) or ibuprofen (Advil or Motrin) to help with pain and to avoid taking narcotic pain medicine.
    * DO NOT drive or use other heavy machines if you are taking narcotic pain medicines. These medicines may make you drowsy and slow your reaction time.

Press a pillow over your incision when you need to cough or sneeze. This helps
ease pain.

Ask your doctor when you should begin taking your regular medicines again
after surgery.

## Wound Care

If your staples have been removed, you will probably have small pieces of tape
placed across your incision. These pieces of tape will fall off on their own.
If your incision was closed with a dissolving suture, you may have had glue
covering the incision. This glue will loosen and will come off on its own. Or,
it can be peeled off after a few weeks.

Ask your provider when you can shower or soak in a bathtub.

    * It is OK if the tapes get wet. DO NOT soak or scrub them.
    * Keep your wound dry at all other times.
    * The tapes will fall off on their own after a week or two. 

If you have a dressing, your doctor will tell you how often to change it and
when you can stop using it.

    * Follow instructions for cleaning your wound daily with soap and water. Look carefully for any changes to the wound as you do this.
    * Pat your wound dry. DO NOT rub it dry.
    * Ask your provider before putting any lotion, cream, or herbal remedy on your wound. 

DO NOT wear tight clothing that rubs against your wound while it is healing.
Use a thin gauze pad over it to protect it if needed.

If you have an ileostomy, follow care instructions from your provider.

## Diet

Eat small amounts of food several times a day. DO NOT eat 3 big meals. You
should:

    * Space out your small meals.
    * Add new foods back into your diet slowly.
    * Try to eat protein every day. 

Some foods may cause gas, loose stools, or constipation as you recover. Avoid
foods that cause problems.

If you become sick to your stomach or have diarrhea, call your provider.

If you have hard stools:

    * Try to get up and walk around more. Being more active can help.
    * If you can, take less of the pain medicines your doctor gave you. They can make you constipated.
    * You may use stool softeners if your doctor tells you it is ok.
    * Ask your doctor if you can take milk of magnesia or magnesium citrate. DO NOT take any laxatives without asking your doctor first.
    * Ask your provider if it is ok to eat foods that contain a lot of fiber or take an over-the-counter fiber product such as psyllium (Metamucil). 

Talk to your provider if you have questions about ileostomy and your diet.

## Returning to Work

Return to work only when you feel ready to. These tips may help:

    * You may be ready when you can be active around the house for 8 hours and still feel ok when you wake up the next morning.
    * You may want to start back part-time and on light duty at first.
    * Your doctor can write a letter to limit your work activities if you do heavy labor. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your doctor if you have any of the following:

    * Fever of 101Â°F (38.3Â°C) or higher, or fever that does not go away with acetaminophen (Tylenol)
    * Swollen belly
    * Feel sick to your stomach or you are throwing up a lot
    * Not had a bowel movement 4 days after leaving the hospital
    * Have been having bowel movements and they suddenly stop
    * Black or tarry stools, or there is blood in your stools
    * Belly pain that is getting worse, and pain medicines do not help
    * Your ileostomy has stopped working for a day or two
    * Changes in your incision, such as the edges are pulling apart, drainage or bleeding coming from it, redness, warmth, swelling, or worsening pain
    * Shortness of breath or chest pain
    * Swollen legs or pain in your calves

## Alternative Names

Small intestine surgery - discharge; Bowel resection - small intestine -
discharge; Resection of part of the small intestine - discharge; Enterectomy -
discharge

## References

Harris JW, Evers BM. Small intestine. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers
BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery: The Biological Basis of
Modern Surgical Practice_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 49.

Smith SF, Duell DJ, Martin BC, Gonzalez L, Aebersold M. Perioperative care.
In: Smith SF, Duell DJ, Martin BC, Gonzalez L, Aebersold M, eds. _Clinical
Nursing Skills: Basic to Advanced Skills_. 9th ed. New York, NY: Pearson;
2017:chap 26.

## Read More

    * Colorectal cancer
    * Crohn disease
    * Intestinal obstruction and Ileus
    * Small bowel resection

## Patient Instructions

    * Bland diet
    * Crohn disease - discharge
    * Full liquid diet
    * Getting out of bed after surgery
    * Ileostomy and your child
    * Ileostomy and your diet
    * Ileostomy - caring for your stoma
    * Ileostomy - changing your pouch
    * Ileostomy - discharge
    * Ileostomy - what to ask your doctor 
    * Low-fiber diet
    * Surgical wound care - open
    * Types of ileostomy
    * Wet-to-dry dressing changes

## Review Date 9/3/2018

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Intestinal Cancer
    * Intestinal Obstruction
    * Small Intestine Disorders

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

