Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000260.htm    
                                Description: Intestinal obstruction is a partial or complete blockage of the bowel. The contents of the intestine cannot pass through it.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Intestinal obstruction and Ileus

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000260.htm

# Intestinal obstruction and Ileus

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Intestinal obstruction is a partial or complete blockage of the bowel. The
contents of the intestine cannot pass through it.

## Causes

Obstruction of the bowel may be due to:

    * A mechanical cause, which means something is in the way 
    * Ileus, a condition in which the bowel does not work correctly, but there is no structural problem causing it 

Paralytic ileus, also called pseudo-obstruction, is one of the major causes of
intestinal obstruction in infants and children. Causes of paralytic ileus may
include:

    * Bacteria or viruses that cause intestinal infections (gastroenteritis)
    * Chemical, electrolyte, or mineral imbalances (such as decreased potassium level)
    * Abdominal surgery
    * Decreased blood supply to the intestines
    * Infections inside the abdomen, such as appendicitis
    * Kidney or lung disease
    * Use of certain medicines, especially narcotics 

Mechanical causes of intestinal obstruction may include:

    * Adhesions or scar tissue that forms after surgery
    * Foreign bodies (objects that are swallowed and block the intestines)
    * Gallstones (rare)
    * Hernias
    * Impacted stool
    * Intussusception (telescoping of one segment of bowel into another)
    * Tumors blocking the intestines
    * Volvulus (twisted intestine) 

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

    * Abdominal swelling (distention)
    * Abdominal fullness, gas
    * Abdominal pain and cramping
    * Breath odor
    * Constipation
    * Diarrhea
    * Inability to pass gas
    * Vomiting

## Exams and Tests

During a physical exam, the health care provider may find bloating,
tenderness, or hernias in the abdomen.

Tests that show obstruction include:

    * Abdominal CT scan
    * Abdominal x-ray
    * Barium enema
    * Upper GI and small bowel series

## Treatment

Treatment involves placing a tube through the nose into the stomach or
intestine. This is to help relieve abdominal swelling (distention) and
vomiting. Volvulus of the large bowel may be treated by passing a tube into
the rectum.

Surgery may be needed to relieve the obstruction if the tube does not relieve
the symptoms. It may also be needed if there are signs of tissue death.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome depends on the cause of the blockage. Most of the time, the cause
is successfully treated.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include or may lead to:

    * Electrolyte (blood chemical and mineral) imbalances
    * Dehydration
    * Hole (perforation) in the intestine
    * Infection
    * Jaundice (yellowing of the skin and eyes) 

If the obstruction blocks the blood supply to the intestine, it may cause
infection and tissue death (gangrene). Risks for tissue death are related to
the cause of the blockage and how long it has been present. Hernias, volvulus,
and intussusception carry a higher gangrene risk.

In a newborn, paralytic ileus that destroys the bowel wall (necrotizing
enterocolitis) is a life-threatening condition. It may lead to blood and lung
infections.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you:

    * Cannot pass stool or gas
    * Have a swollen abdomen (distention) that does not go away
    * Keep vomiting

## Prevention

Prevention depends on the cause. Treating conditions, such as tumors and
hernias that can lead to a blockage, may reduce your risk.

Some causes of obstruction cannot be prevented.

## Alternative Names

Paralytic ileus; Intestinal volvulus; Bowel obstruction; Ileus; Pseudo-
obstruction - intestinal; Colonic ileus; Small bowel obstruction

## Patient Instructions

    * Clear liquid diet
    * Full liquid diet
    * Large bowel resection - discharge
    * Small bowel resection - discharge
    * Total colectomy or proctocolectomy - discharge

## Images

    * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
    * ![Ileus - X-ray of distended bowel and stomach](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1169t.jpg)Ileus - x-ray of distended bowel and stomach
    * ![Ileus - X-ray of bowel distension](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1170t.jpg)Ileus - x-ray of bowel distension
    * ![Intussusception - X-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1172t.jpg)Intussusception - x-ray
    * ![Volvulus - X-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1208t.jpg)Volvulus - x-ray
    * ![Small bowel obstruction - X-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/3069t.jpg)Small bowel obstruction - x-ray
    * ![Small bowel resection - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/7168t.jpg)Small bowel resection - series

## References

Harris JW, Evers BM. Small intestine. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers
BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 49.

Mahmoud NN, Bleier JIS, Aarons CB, Paulson EC, et al. Colon and rectum. In:
Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of
Surgery_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2017:chap 51.

Mizell JS, Turnage RH. Intestinal obstruction. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS,
Brandt LJ, eds. _SleisengerÂ and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver
Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 123.

## Review Date 4/7/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Exam](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Adhesions_thumb.jpg)Adhesions _Read
more_

![Intestinal
Obstruction](https://medlineplus.gov/images/IntestinalObstruction_thumb.jpg)Intestinal
Obstruction _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

