Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003607.htm    
                                Description: This is a test that measures the amount of amylase in urine. Amylase is an enzyme that helps digest carbohydrates. It is produced mainly in the pancreas and the glands that make saliva.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Amylase - urine

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003607.htm

# Amylase - urine

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

This is a test that measures the amount of amylase in urine. Amylase is an
enzyme that helps digest carbohydrates. It is produced mainly in the pancreas
and the glands that make saliva.

Amylase may also be measured with a blood test.

## How the Test is Performed

A urine sample is needed. The test may be performed using:

    * Clean-catch urine test
    * 24-hour urine collection

## How to Prepare for the Test

Many medicines can interfere with test results.

    * Your health care provider will tell you if you need to stop taking any medicines before you have this test.
    * DO NOT stop or change your medicines without talking to your provider first. 

## How the Test will Feel

The test involves only normal urination. There is no discomfort.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is done to diagnose pancreatitis and other diseases that affect the
pancreas.

## Normal Results

The normal range is 2.6 to 21.2 international units per hour (IU/h).

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk to
your provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

The example above shows the common measurement range for results for these
tests. Some laboratories use different measurements or may test different
specimens.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An increased amount of amylase in the urine is called amylasuria. Increased
urine amylase levels may be a sign of:

    * Acute pancreatitis
    * Alcohol consumption
    * Cancer of the pancreas, ovaries, or lungs
    * Cholecystitis
    * Ectopic or ruptured tubal pregnancy
    * Gallbladder disease
    * Infection of the salivary glands (called sialoadenitis, may be caused by bacteria,Â mumps or a blockage)
    * Intestinal obstruction
    * Pancreatic duct obstruction
    * Pelvic inflammatory disease
    * Perforated ulcer

Decreased amylase levels may be due to:

    * Damage to the pancreas
    * Kidney disease
    * Macroamylasemia

## Images

    * ![Female urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1122t.jpg)Female urinary tract
    * ![Male urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1123t.jpg)Male urinary tract
    * ![Amylase urine test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9060t.jpg)Amylase urine test

## References

Forsmark CE. Pancreatitis. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 144.

Siddiqi HA, Salwen MJ, Shaikh MH, Bowne WB. Laboratory diagnosis of
gastrointestinal and pancreatic disorders. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds.
_Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 22.

## Review Date 5/6/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Intestinal
Obstruction](https://medlineplus.gov/images/IntestinalObstruction_thumb.jpg)Intestinal
Obstruction _Read more_

![Kidney Tests](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyTests_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Tests _Read more_

![Pancreatic
Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PancreaticCancer_thumb.jpg)Pancreatic
Cancer _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

