Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000150.htm    
                                Description: You were in the hospital because you had a blockage in your bowel (intestine). This condition is called an intestinal obstruction. The blockage may be partial or total (complete).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Intestinal or bowel obstruction - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000150.htm

# Intestinal or bowel obstruction - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You were in the hospital because you had a blockage in your bowel (intestine).
This condition is called an intestinal obstruction. The blockage may be
partial or total (complete).

This article describes what to expect after surgery and how to take care of
yourself at home.

## When You're in the Hospital

While in the hospital, you received intravenous (IV) fluids. You also may have
had a tube placed through your nose and into your stomach. You may have
received antibiotics.

If you did not have surgery, your health care providers slowly began to give
you liquids, and then food.

If you needed surgery, you may have had part of your large or small intestine
removed. Your surgeon may have been able to sew the healthy ends of your
intestines back together. You may also have had ileostomy or a colostomy.

If a tumor or cancer caused the blockage in your intestine, the surgeon may
have removed it. Or, it may have been bypassed by routing your intestine
around it.

## What to Expect at Home

If you had surgery:

The outcome is usually good if the obstruction is treated before tissue damage
or tissue death occurs in the bowel. Some people may have more bowel
obstruction in the future.

If you did not have surgery:

Your symptoms may be completely gone. Or, you may still have some discomfort,
and your stomach may still feel bloated. There is a chance your intestine may
become blocked again.

## Self-care

Follow instructions for how to take care of yourself at home.

Eat small amounts of food several times a day. DO NOT eat 3 large meals. You
should:

    * Space out your small meals.
    * Add new foods back into your diet slowly.
    * Take sips of clear liquids throughout the day.

Some foods may cause gas, loose stools, or constipation as you recover. Avoid
foods that cause these problems.

If you become sick to your stomach or have diarrhea, avoid solid foods for a
while and try drinking only clear fluids.

Your surgeon may want you to limit exercise or strenuous activity for at least
4 to 6 weeks. Ask your surgeon what activities are OK for you to do.

If you have had an ileostomy or a colostomy, a nurse will tell you how to care
for it.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your surgeon if you have:

    * Vomiting or nausea
    * Diarrhea that does not go away
    * Pain that does not go away or is getting worse
    * A swollen or tender belly
    * Little or no gas or stools to pass
    * Fever or chills
    * Blood in your stool 

## Alternative Names

Repair of volvulus - discharge; Reduction of intussusception - discharge;
Release of adhesions - discharge; Hernia repair - discharge; Tumor resection -
discharge

## References

Mahmoud NN, Bleier JIS, Aarons CB, Paulson EC, Shanmugan S, Fry RD. Colon and
rectum. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston
Textbook of Surgery: The Biological Basis of Modern Surgical Practice_. 20th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 51.

Mizell JS, Turnage RH. Intestinal obstruction. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS,
Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 123.

## Read More

    * Intestinal obstruction repair

## Patient Instructions

    * Changing your ostomy pouch
    * Full liquid diet
    * Getting out of bed after surgery
    * Low-fiber diet
    * Wet-to-dry dressing changes

## Review Date 9/3/2018

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Intestinal Obstruction

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

