Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000985.htm    
                                Description: A volvulus is a twisting of the intestine that can occur in childhood. It causes a blockage that may cut off blood flow. Part of the intestine may be damaged as a result.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Volvulus - childhood

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000985.htm

# Volvulus - childhood

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A volvulus is a twisting of the intestine that can occur in childhood. It
causes a blockage that may cut off blood flow. Part of the intestine may be
damaged as a result.

## Causes

A birth defect called intestinal malrotation can make an infant more likely to
develop a volvulus. However, a volvulus can occur without this condition
present.

Volvulus due to malrotation occurs most often in the first year of life.

## Symptoms

Common symptoms of volvulus are:

    * Bloody or dark red stools
    * Constipation or difficulty releasing stools
    * Distended abdomen
    * Pain or tenderness in the abdomen
    * Nausea or vomiting
    * Shock
    * Vomiting green material 

Symptoms are very often severe. The infant in such cases is taken to the
emergency room. Early treatment can be critical for survival.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider may order the following tests to diagnose the
condition:

    * Barium enema
    * Blood tests to check electrolytes
    * CT scan
    * Stool guaiac (shows blood in the stool)
    * Upper GI series 

## Treatment

In some cases, colonoscopy can be used to correct the problem. This involves
use of a flexible tube with a light on the end that is passed into the colon
(large bowel) through the rectum.

Emergency surgery is often needed to repair the volvulus. A surgical cut is
made in the abdomen. The bowels are untwisted and the blood supply is
restored.

If a small segment of bowel is dead from a lack of blood flow (necrotic), it
is removed. The ends of the bowel are then sewn together. Or, they are used to
form a connection of the intestines to the outside of the body (colostomy or
ileostomy). Bowel contents can be removed through this opening.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most of the time, prompt diagnosis and treatment of volvulus leads to a good
outcome.

If the bowel is dead, the outlook is poor. The situation may be fatal,
depending on how much of the bowel is dead.

## Possible Complications

Possible complications of volvulus are:

    * Secondary peritonitis
    * Short bowel syndrome (after removal of a large part of the small bowel) 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

This is an emergency condition. The symptoms of childhood volvulus develop
quickly and the child will become very ill. Get medical attention right away
if this happens.

## Alternative Names

Childhood volvulus; Abdominal pain - volvulus

## Images

    * ![Volvulus](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10031t.jpg)Volvulus
    * ![Volvulus - X-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1208t.jpg)Volvulus - x-ray

## References

Bales C, Liacouras CA. Intestinal atresia, stenosis, and malrotation. In:
Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 330.

Herline A, Geiger TM. The management of colonic volvulus. In: Cameron JL,
Cameron AM, eds. _Current Surgical Therapy_. 12th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:191-193.

Peterson MA, Wu AW. Disorders of the large intestine. In: Walls RM, Hockberger
RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 85.

Turay F, Rudolph JA. Nutrition and gastroenterology. In: Zitelli BJ, McIntire
SC, Norwalk AJ, eds. _Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of Pediatric Physical
Diagnosis_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 11.

## Review Date 6/21/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Intestinal
Obstruction](https://medlineplus.gov/images/IntestinalObstruction_thumb.jpg)Intestinal
Obstruction _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

