Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001140.htm    
                                Description: Hirschsprung disease is a blockage of the large intestine. It occurs due to poor muscle movement in the bowel. It is a congenital condition, which means it is present from birth.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hirschsprung disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001140.htm

# Hirschsprung disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hirschsprung disease is a blockage of the large intestine. It occurs due to
poor muscle movement in the bowel. It is a congenital condition, which means
it is present from birth.

## Causes

Muscle contractions in the gut help digested foods and liquids move through
the intestine. This is called peristalsis. Nerves between the muscle layers
trigger the contractions.

In Hirschsprung disease, the nerves are missing from a part of the bowel.
Areas without these nerves cannot push material through. This causes a
blockage. Intestinal contents build up behind the blockage. The bowel and
abdomen swell as a result.

Hirschsprung disease causes about 25% of all newborn intestinal blockages. It
occurs 5 times more often in males than in females. Hirschsprung disease is
sometimes linked to other inherited or congenital conditions, such as Down
syndrome.

## Symptoms

Symptoms that may be present in newborns and infants include:

    * Difficulty with bowel movements
    * Failure to pass meconium shortly after birth
    * Failure to pass a first stool within 24 to 48 hours after birth
    * Infrequent but explosive stools
    * Jaundice
    * Poor feeding
    * Poor weight gain
    * Vomiting
    * Watery diarrhea (in the newborn) 

Symptoms in older children:

    * Constipation that gradually gets worse
    * Fecal impaction
    * Malnutrition
    * Slow growth
    * Swollen belly

## Exams and Tests

Milder cases may not be diagnosed until the baby is older.

During a physical exam, the health care provider may be able to feel loops of
bowel in the swollen belly. A rectal exam may reveal tight muscle tone in the
rectal muscles.

Tests used to help diagnose Hirschsprung disease may include:

    * Abdominal x-ray
    * Anal manometry (a balloon is inflated in the rectum to measure pressure in the area)
    * Barium enema
    * Rectal biopsy

## Treatment

A procedure called serial rectal irrigation helps relieve pressure in
(decompress) the bowel.

The abnormal section of colon must be taken outÂ using surgery. Most commonly,
the rectum and abnormal part of the colon are removed. The healthy part of the
colon is then pulled down and attached to the anus.

Sometimes this can be done in one operation. However, it is often done in two
parts. A colostomy is performed first. The other part of the procedure is done
later in the child's first year of life.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Symptoms improve or go away in most children after surgery. A small number of
children may have constipation or problems controlling stools (fecal
incontinence). Children who get treated early or who have a shorter segment of
bowel involved have a better outcome.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Inflammation and infection of the intestines (enterocolitis) may occur before surgery, and sometimes during the first 1 to 2 years afterwards. Symptoms are severe, including swelling of the abdomen, foul-smelling watery diarrhea, lethargy, and poor feeding.
    * Perforation or rupture of the intestine.
    * Short bowel syndrome, a condition that can lead to malnourishment and dehydration. 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your child's provider if:

    * Your child develops symptoms of Hirschsprung disease
    * Your child has abdominal pain or other new symptoms after being treated for this condition

## Alternative Names

Congenital megacolon

## References

Bass LM, Wershil BK. Anatomy, histology, embryology, and developmental
anomalies of the small and large intestine. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt
LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 98.

Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF. Motility disorders and
Hirschsprung disease. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds.
_Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 332.

## Review Date 10/18/2017

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Birth Defects](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BirthDefect_thumb.jpg)Birth
Defects _Read more_

![Colonic
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ColonicDiseases_thumb.jpg)Colonic
Diseases _Read more_

![Intestinal
Obstruction](https://medlineplus.gov/images/IntestinalObstruction_thumb.jpg)Intestinal
Obstruction _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

