Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000130.htm    
                                Description: Although no child is injury proof, parents can take simple steps to keep their children from getting head injuries.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Preventing head injuries in children

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000130.htm

# Preventing head injuries in children

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Although no child is injury proof, parents can take simple steps to keep their
children from getting head injuries.

## Car Safety

Your child should wear a seatbelt at all times when they are in a car or other
motor vehicle.

    * Use a child safety seat or booster seat that is best for their age, weight, and height. A seat that fits poorly can be dangerous. You can have your car seat checked at an inspection station. You can find a station near you by checking the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) website -- www.nhtsa.gov/equipment/car-seats-and-booster-seats#35091.
    * Children can switch from car seats to booster seats when they weigh 40 pounds (lb), or 18 kilograms (kg). There are car seats that are made for children who weigh more than 40 lbs or 18 kg.
    * Car and booster seat laws vary by state. It is a good idea to keep your child in a booster seat until they are at least 4'9" (145 cm) tall and between 8 and 12 years old. 

DO NOT drive with a child in your car when you have been drinking alcohol,
used illegal drugs, or are feeling very tired.

## Wearing a Helmet

Helmets help to prevent head injuries. Your child should wear a helmet that
fits properly for the following sports or activities:

    * Playing contact sports, such as lacrosse, ice hockey, football
    * Riding a skateboard, scooter, or inline skates
    * Batting or running on the bases during baseball or softball games
    * Riding a horse
    * Riding a bike
    * Sledding, skiing, or snowboarding 

Your local sporting goods store, sports facility, or bike shop will be able to
help make certain the helmet fits properly. You can also contact the American
League of Bicyclists -- www.bikeleague.org.

Almost all major medical organizations recommend against boxing of any sort,
even with a helmet.

Older children should always wear a helmet when riding a snowmobile,
motorcycle, scooter, or all-terrain vehicle (ATV). If possible, children
should not ride on these vehicles.

After having a concussion or mild head injury, your child may need a helmet.
Be sure to talk with your provider about when your child can return to
activities.

## Keeping Your Child Safe in the Home

Install window guards on all windows that can be opened.

Use a safety gate at the top and the bottom of stairs until your child can
safely go up and down. Keep stairs free of any clutter. DO NOT let your
children play on stairs or jump on or from furniture.

DO NOT leave a young infant alone on a high place such as a bed or sofa. When
using a high chair, make sure your child is strapped in with the safety
harness.

Store all firearms and bullets in a locked cabinet.

## Outdoor Safety

Make sure playground surfaces are safe. They should be made of shock-absorbing
material, such as rubber mulch.

Keep your children away from trampolines, if possible.

## Bed Safety

Some simple steps can keep your child safe in bed:

    * Keep the side rails on a crib up.
    * DO NOT let your child jump on beds.
    * If possible, do not buy bunk beds. If you must have a bunk bed, check online reviews before buying. Make sure the frame is strong. Also make sure there is a side rail on the upper bunk. The ladder should be strong and attach firmly to the frame. 

## Alternative Names

Concussion - preventing in children; Traumatic brain injury - preventing in
children; TBI - children; Safety - preventing head injury

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Brain injury basics.
www.cdc.gov/headsup/basics/index.html. Updated February 16, 2015. Accessed
October 22, 2018.

Krach LE. Severe traumatic brain injury. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme
JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 710.

National Highway Traffic Safety Administration website. Car seats and booster
seats. www.nhtsa.gov/equipment/car-seats-and-booster-seats#35091. Accessed
October 22, 2018.

## Read More

    * Concussion
    * Craniosynostosis repair
    * Decreased alertness
    * Head injury - first aid
    * Unconsciousness - first aid

## Patient Instructions

    * Concussion in children - what to ask your doctor
    * Craniosynostosis repair - discharge 
    * Epilepsy in children - discharge
    * Epilepsy in children - what to ask your doctor

## Review Date 8/5/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Child Safety
    * Concussion
    * Head Injuries

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

