Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000126.htm    
                                Description: A concussion may occur when the head hits an object, or a moving object strikes the head. A concussion is a minor or less severe type of brain injury, which may also be called a traumatic brain injury.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Concussion in adults - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000126.htm

# Concussion in adults - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A concussion may occur when the head hits an object, or a moving object
strikes the head. A concussion is a minor or less severe type of brain injury,
which may also be called a traumatic brain injury.

A concussion can affect how the brain works for a while. It may lead to
headaches, changes in alertness, or loss of consciousness.

After you go home, follow your health care provider's instructions on how to
take care of yourself. Use the information below as a reminder.

## What to Expect at Home

Getting better from a concussion takes days to weeks or even months. You may
be irritable, have trouble concentrating, or be unable to remember things. You
may also have headaches, dizziness, or blurry vision. These problems will
likely recover slowly. You may want to get help from family or friends for
making important decisions.

## When You First Go Home

You may use acetaminophen (Tylenol) for a headache. DO NOT use aspirin,
ibuprofen (Motrin or Advil), naproxen, or other non-steroidal anti-
inflammatory drugs.

You DO NOT need to stay in bed. Light activity around the home is okay. But
avoid exercise, lifting weights, or other heavy activity.

You may want to keep your diet light if you have nausea and vomiting. Drink
fluids to stay hydrated.

Have an adult stay with you for the first 12 to 24 hours after you are home
from the emergency room.

    * Going to sleep is OK. Ask your doctor whether, for at least the first 12 hours, someone should wake you up every 2 or 3 hours. They can ask a simple question, such as your name, and then look for any other changes in the way you look or act.
    * Ask your doctor how long you need to do this. 

DO NOT drink alcohol until you have fully recovered. Alcohol may slow down how
quickly you recover and increase your chance of another injury. It can also
make it harder to make decisions.

## Activity

As long as you have symptoms, avoid sports activities, operating machines,
being overly active, doing physical labor. Ask your doctor when you can return
to your activities.

If you do sports, a doctor will need to check you before you go back to
playing.

Make sure friends, co-workers, and family members know about your recent
injury.

Let your family, co-workers, and friends know that you may be more tired,
withdrawn, easily upset, or confused. Also tell them that you may have a hard
time with tasks that require remembering or concentrating, and may have mild
headaches and less tolerance for noise.

Consider asking for more breaks when you return to work.

Talk with your employer about:

    * Reducing your workload for a while
    * Not doing activities that may place others in danger
    * Timing of important projects
    * Allowing rest times during the day
    * Having extra time to complete projects
    * Having others check your work

A doctor should tell you when you can:

    * Do heavy labor or operate machines
    * Play contact sports, such as football, hockey, and soccer
    * Ride a bicycle, motorcycle, or off-road vehicle
    * Drive a car
    * Ski, snowboard, skate, skateboard, or do gymnastics or martial arts
    * Participate in any activity where there is a risk of hitting your head or jolt to the head

## When to Call the Doctor

If symptoms DO NOT go away or are not improving after 2 or 3 weeks, talk to
your doctor.

Call the doctor if you have:

    * A stiff neck
    * Fluid and blood leaking from your nose or ears
    * A hard time waking up or have become more sleepy
    * A headache that is getting worse, lasts a long time, or is not relieved by over-the-counter pain relievers
    * Fever
    * Vomiting more than 3 times
    * Problems walking or talking
    * Changes in speech (slurred, difficult to understand, does not make sense)
    * Problems thinking straight
    * Seizures (jerking your arms or legs without control)
    * Changes in behavior or unusual behavior
    * Double vision 

## Alternative Names

Brain injury - concussion - discharge; Traumatic brain injury - concussion -
discharge; Closed head injury - concussion - discharge

## References

Giza CC, Kutcher JS, Ashwal S, et al. Summary of evidence-based guideline
update: evaluation and management of concussion in sports: report of the
Guideline Development Subcommittee of the American Academy of Neurology.
_Neurology_. 2013;80(24):2250-2257. PMID: 23508730
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23508730.

Papa L, Goldberg SA. Head trauma. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M,
eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 34.

Rossetti HC, Barth JT, Broshek DK, Freeman JR. Concussion and brain injury.
In: Miller MD, Thompson SR, eds. _DeLee & Drez's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine:
Principles and Practice_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 125.

## Read More

    * Concussion
    * Decreased alertness
    * Head injury - first aid
    * Unconsciousness - first aid

## Patient Instructions

    * Concussion in adults - what to ask your doctor
    * Concussion in children - discharge

## Review Date 4/30/2018

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, Attending Neurologist and Assistant
Professor of Clinical Neurology, SUNY Stony Brook, School of Medicine, Stony
Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Concussion

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

