Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/concussion-tests/    
                                Description: Concussion tests help find out if you have had a concussion, a type of mild traumatic brain injury. Treating a concussion can prevent long-term brain damage. The main treatment for a concussion is rest. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Concussion Tests

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/concussion-tests/

# Concussion Tests

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What are concussion tests?

Concussion tests can help find out if you or your child has suffered a
concussion. A concussion is a type of brain injury caused by a bump, blow, or
jolt to the head. Young children are at a higher risk of concussions because
they are more active and because their brains are still developing.

Concussions are often described as mild traumatic brain injuries. When you get
a concussion, your brain shakes or bounces inside your skull. It causes
chemical changes in the brain and affects brain function. After a concussion,
you may have headaches, mood changes, and problems with memory and
concentration. The effects are usually temporary, and most people make a full
recovery after treatment. The main treatment for a concussion is rest, both
physical and mental. Left untreated, a concussion can cause long-term brain
damage.

Other names: concussion assessment

## What are they used for?

Concussion tests are used to assess brain function after a head injury. A type
of concussion test, called a baseline test, is often used for athletes who
play contact sports, a common cause of concussion. A baseline concussion test
is used on non-injured athletes before the start of a sports season. It
measures normal brain function. If a player gets injured, the baseline results
are compared with the concussion tests performed after the injury. This helps
the health care provider see if the concussion has caused any problems with
brain function.

## Why do I need concussion testing?

You or your child may need concussion testing after a head injury, even if you
think the injury is not serious. Most people don't lose consciousness from a
concussion. Some people get concussions and don't even know it. It's important
to watch for concussion symptoms so you or your child can get treated
promptly. Early treatment can help you recover faster and prevent further
injury.

Concussion symptoms include:

    * Headache
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Fatigue
    * Confusion
    * Dizziness
    * Sensitivity to light
    * Changes in sleep patterns
    * Mood changes
    * Difficulty concentrating
    * Memory problems

Some of these concussion symptoms show up right away. Others may not show up
for weeks or months after the injury.

Certain symptoms may mean a more serious brain injury than a concussion. Call
911 or seek immediate medical attention if you or your child has any of the
following symptoms:

    * Inability to be woken up after injury
    * Severe headache
    * Seizures
    * Slurred speech
    * Excessive vomiting

## What happens during concussion testing?

Testing usually includes questions about concussion symptoms and a physical
exam. You or your child may also be checked for changes in:

    * Vision
    * Hearing
    * Balance
    * Coordination
    * Reflexes
    * Memory
    * Concentration

Athletes may get concussion baseline testing before the start of a season. A
baseline concussion test usually involves taking an online questionnaire. The
questionnaire measures attention, memory, speed of answers, and other
abilities.

Testing sometimes includes one of the following types of imaging tests:

    * CT (computerized tomography) scan, a type of x-ray that takes a series of pictures as it rotates around you
    * MRI (magnetic resonance imaging), which uses powerful magnets and radio waves to create an image. It does not use radiation.

In the near future, a blood test may also be used to help diagnose a
concussion. The FDA recently approved a test, called the Brain Trauma
Indicator, for adults with concussions. The test measures certain proteins
that are released into the bloodstream within 12 hours of a head injury. The
test may be able to show how serious the injury is. Your provider may use the
test to decide whether or not you need a CT scan.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for a concussion test?

You don't need any special preparations for concussion testing.

## Are there any risks to the tests?

There is little risk to having concussion testing. CT scans and MRIs are
painless, but can be a little uncomfortable. Some people feel claustrophobic
in an MRI scanning machine.

## What do the results mean?

If your results show that you or your child has a concussion, rest will be the
first and most important step in your recovery. This includes getting plenty
of sleep and not doing any strenuous activities.

You'll also need to rest your mind too. This is known as cognitive rest. It
means limiting schoolwork or other mentally challenging activities, watching
TV, using the computer, and reading. As your symptoms improve, you can
gradually increase your level of physical and mental activities. Talk to your
health care provider or your child's provider for specific recommendations.
Taking enough time to recover can help ensure a full recovery.

For athletes, there may be specified steps, called a concussion protocol, that
are recommended in addition to the steps listed above. These include:

    * Not returning to the sport for seven or more days
    * Working with coaches, trainers, and medical professionals to assess the athlete's condition
    * Comparing baseline and after-injury concussion results

## Is there anything else I need to know about concussion testing?

There are steps you can take to prevent concussions. These include:

    * Wearing helmets while biking, skiing, and doing other sports
    * Regularly checking sports equipment for proper fit and function
    * Wearing seatbelts
    * Keeping the home safe with well-lit rooms and removing objects from floors that might cause someone to trip. Falls in the home are a leading cause of head injury.

Preventing concussions is important for everyone, but it's especially crucial
for people who have had a concussion in the past. Having a second concussion
close to the time of the first injury can cause additional health problems and
lengthen recovery time. Having more than one concussion in your lifetime may
also cause some long-term health problems.

## References

    1. Brain, Head & Neck, and Spine Imaging: A Patient's Guide to Neuroradiology [Internet]. American Society of Neuroradiology; c2012â2017. Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) and Concussion [cited 2018 Nov 14]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.asnr.org/patientinfo/conditions/tbi.shtml
    2. Cleveland Clinic [Internet]. Cleveland (OH): Cleveland Clinic; c1995â2018. Is it a Concussion or Worse? How You Can Tell; 2015 Oct 16 [cited 2018 Nov 14]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://health.clevelandclinic.org/concussion-worse-can-tell
    3. FDA: U.S. Food and Drug Administration [Internet]. Silver Spring (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; FDA authorizes marketing of first blood test to aid in the evaluation of concussion in adults; 2018 Feb 14 [updated 2018 Feb 15; cited 2018 Nov 29]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.fda.gov/newsevents/newsroom/pressannouncements/ucm596531.htm
    4. Johns Hopkins Medicine [Internet]. The Johns Hopkins University; Health Library: Concussion [cited 2018 Nov 14]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.hopkinsmedicine.org/healthlibrary/conditions/adult/nervous_system_disorders/concussion_134,14
    5. Kids Health from Nemours [Internet]. Jacksonville (FL): The Nemours Foundation; c1995â2018. Concussions [cited 2018 Nov 14]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://kidshealth.org/en/parents/concussions.htm
    6. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. FDA Approves First Blood Test to Help Evaluate Concussion; [updated 2018 Mar 21; cited 2018 Nov 29]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/news/fda-approves-first-blood-test-help-evaluate-concussions
    7. Mayfield Brain and Spine [Internet]. Cincinnati: Mayfield Brain and Spine; c2008â2018. Concussion (mild traumatic brain injury) [updated 2018 Jul; cited 2018 Nov 14]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://mayfieldclinic.com/pe-concussion.htm
    8. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2018. Concussion: Diagnosis and treatment; 2017 Jul 29 [cited 2018 Nov 14]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/concussion/diagnosis-treatment/drc-20355600
    9. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2018. Concussion: Symptoms and causes; 2017 Jul 29 [cited 2018 Nov 14]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/concussion/symptoms-causes/syc-20355594
    10. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2018. Concussion testing: Overview; 2018 Jan 3 [cited 2018 Nov 14]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/tests-procedures/concussion-testing/about/pac-20384683
    11. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co. Inc.; c2018. Concussion [cited 2018 Nov 14]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.merckmanuals.com/home/injuries-and-poisoning/head-injuries/concussion
    12. Michigan Medicine: University of Michigan [Internet]. Ann Arbor (MI): Regents of the University of Michigan; c1995â2018. Concussion [cited 2018 Nov 14]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.uofmhealth.org/conditions-treatments/brain-neurological-conditions/concussion
    13. The Center Foundation [Internet]. Bend (OR): The Center Foundation; Concussion Protocol [cited 2018 Nov 14]; [about 6 screens]. Available from: https://www.centerfoundation.org/concussion-protocol/?gclid
    14. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida Health; c2018. Concussion: Overview [updated 2018 Nov 14; cited 2018 Nov 14]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/concussion
    15. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida Health; c2018. Head CT scan: Overview [updated 2018 Nov 14; cited 2018 Nov 14]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/head-ct-scan
    16. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida Health; c2018. Head MRI: Overview [updated 2018 Nov 14; cited 2018 Nov 14]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/head-mri
    17. UPMC Sports Medicine [Internet]. Pittsburgh: UPMC; c2018. Sports Concussions: Overview [cited 2018 Nov 14]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.upmc.com/services/sports-medicine/conditions/concussions#overview
    18. UPMC Sports Medicine [Internet]. Pittsburgh: UPMC; c2018. Sports Concussions: Symptoms and Diagnosis [cited 2018 Nov 14]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.upmc.com/services/sports-medicine/conditions/concussions#symptomsdiagnosis
    19. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2018. Concussion: Frequently Asked Questions [cited 2018 Nov 14]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/concussion/faq.aspx#HowisConcussionDiagnosed
    20. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2018. Concussion: What is a Concussion? [cited 2018 Nov 14]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/concussion/what-is-concussion.aspx
    21. Weill Cornell Medicine: Concussion and Brain Injury Clinic [Internet]. New York: Weill Cornell Medicine; Children and Concussions [cited 2018 Nov 4]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://concussion.weillcornell.org/about-concussions/kids-and-concussions

## Related Health Topics

    * Concussion
    * CT Scans
    * Headache
    * MRI Scans
    * Traumatic Brain Injury

## Related Lab Test Information

    * How to Understand Your Lab Results

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 2 April 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

