Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000212.htm    
                                Description: You had a concussion. This is a mild brain injury. It can affect how your brain works for a while.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Concussion in adults - what to ask your doctor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000212.htm

# Concussion in adults - what to ask your doctor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You had a concussion. This is a mild brain injury. It can affect how your
brain works for a while.

Below are some questions you may want to ask your health care provider to help
you take care of your concussion.

## Questions

What types of symptoms or problems will I have?

    * Will I have problems thinking or remembering?
    * Will I have a headache?
    * How long will the symptoms last?
    * Will all the symptoms and problems go away?

Does someone need to stay with me?

    * For how long?
    * Is it OK for me to go to sleep?
    * If I go to sleep, does someone need to wake me up and check on me?

What type of activity can I do?

    * Do I need to stay in bed or lie down?
    * Can I do housework? How about yard work?
    * When can I begin to exercise? When can I start contact sports, such as football or soccer? When can I begin skiing or snowboarding?
    * Can I drive a car or operate other machinery?

When can I go back to work?

    * What should I tell my boss about my concussion?
    * Do I need to take special memory tests to determine if I am fit for work?
    * Can I work a full day?
    * Will I need to rest during the day?

What medicines can I use for pain or headache? Can I use aspirin, ibuprofen
(Motrin or Advil), naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn), or other similar medicines?

Is it OK to eat? Will I feel sick to my stomach?

When can I drink alcohol?

Do I need a follow-up appointment?

When should I call the doctor?

## Alternative Names

What to ask your doctor about concussion - adult; Adult brain injury - what to
ask your doctor; Traumatic brain injury - what to ask the doctor

## References

Giza CC, Kutcher JS, Ashwal S, et al. Summary of evidence-based guideline
update: evaluation and management of concussion in sports: report of the
Guideline Development Subcommittee of the American Academy of Neurology.
_Neurology_. 2013;80(24):2250-2257. PMID: 23508730
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23508730.

Papa L, Goldberg SA. Head trauma. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M,
eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 34.

## Read More

    * Concussion
    * Confusion
    * Head injury - first aid
    * Unconsciousness - first aid

## Patient Instructions

    * Brain injury - discharge 
    * Concussion in adults - discharge

## Review Date 10/18/2018

Updated by: Alireza Minagar, MD, MBA, Professor, Department of Neurology, LSU
Health Sciences Center, Shreveport, LA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Concussion

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

