

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report ( _MMWR_ )

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syndicate

# Community Mitigation Guidelines to Prevent Pandemic Influenza â United
States, 2017

_Recommendations and Reports_ / April 21, 2017 / 66(1);1â34

Minus

Related Pages

![Free CE button](/mmwr/images/FreeCE80x20.jpg)



Noreen Qualls, DrPH1; Alexandra Levitt, PhD2; Neha Kanade, MPH1,3; Narue
Wright-Jegede, MPH1,4; Stephanie Dopson, ScD5; Matthew Biggerstaff, MPH6;
Carrie Reed, DSc6; Amra Uzicanin, MD1 (View author affiliations)

View suggested citation

Article Metrics

##### Altmetric:

##### Citations:

##### Views:

_Views equals page views plus PDF downloads_

Metric Details

On This Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Abstract
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Introduction
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Purpose
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Background
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Methods
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Recommendations on the Use of Personal, Community, and Environmental NPIs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Discussion
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Conclusion
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC Community Mitigation Guidelines Teams

**Figures**

Figure 1

Figure 2

Figure 3

Figure 4

Figure 5

Figure 6

 **Tables**

Table 1

Table 2

Table 3

Table 4

Table 5

Table 6

Table 7

Table 8

Table 9

Table 10

 **References**

Related Materials

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * pdf icon [PDF]

## Summary

When a novel influenza A virus with pandemic potential emerges,
nonpharmaceutical interventions (NPIs) often are the most readily available
interventions to help slow transmission of the virus in communities, which is
especially important before a pandemic vaccine becomes widely available. NPIs,
also known as community mitigation measures, are actions that persons and
communities can take to help slow the spread of respiratory virus infections,
including seasonal and pandemic influenza viruses.

These guidelines replace the 2007 _Interim Pre-pandemic Planning Guidance:
Community Strategy for Pandemic Influenza Mitigation in the United States --
Early, Targeted, Layered Use of Nonpharmaceutical Interventions_
(https://stacks.cdc.gov/view/cdc/11425). Several elements remain unchanged
from the 2007 guidance, which described recommended NPIs and the supporting
rationale and key concepts for the use of these interventions during influenza
pandemics. NPIs can be phased in, or layered, on the basis of pandemic
severity and local transmission patterns over time. Categories of NPIs include
personal protective measures for everyday use (e.g., voluntary home isolation
of ill persons, respiratory etiquette, and hand hygiene); personal protective
measures reserved for influenza pandemics (e.g., voluntary home quarantine of
exposed household members and use of face masks in community settings when
ill); community measures aimed at increasing social distancing (e.g., school
closures and dismissals, social distancing in workplaces, and postponing or
cancelling mass gatherings); and environmental measures (e.g., routine
cleaning of frequently touched surfaces).

Several new elements have been incorporated into the 2017 guidelines. First,
to support updated recommendations on the use of NPIs, the latest scientific
evidence available since the influenza A (H1N1)pdm09 pandemic has been added.
Second, a summary of lessons learned from the 2009 H1N1 pandemic response is
presented to underscore the importance of broad and flexible prepandemic
planning. Third, a new section on community engagement has been included to
highlight that the timely and effective use of NPIs depends on community
acceptance and active participation. Fourth, to provide new or updated
pandemic assessment and planning tools, the novel influenza virus pandemic
intervals tool, the Influenza Risk Assessment Tool, the Pandemic Severity
Assessment Framework, and a set of prepandemic planning scenarios are
described. Finally, to facilitate implementation of the updated guidelines and
to assist states and localities with prepandemic planning and decision-making,
this report links to six supplemental prepandemic NPI planning guides for
different community settings that are available online
(https://www.cdc.gov/nonpharmaceutical-interventions).

Top

##  Introduction

Nonpharmaceutical interventions (NPIs) are strategies for disease, injury, and
exposure control
(https://www.cdc.gov/phpr/capabilities/DSLR_capabilities_July.pdfpdf icon).
They include actions that persons and communities can take to help slow the
spread of respiratory viruses (e.g., seasonal and pandemic influenza viruses).
These actions include personal protective measures for everyday use (e.g.,
staying home when ill, covering coughs and sneezes, and washing hands often)
and communitywide measures reserved for pandemics and aimed at reducing
opportunities for exposure (e.g., coordinated closures and dismissals of child
care facilities and schools and cancelling mass gatherings). When a novel
influenza A virus with pandemic potential emerges, NPIs can be used in
conjunction with available pharmaceutical interventions (antiviral
medications) to help slow its transmission in communities, especially when a
vaccine is not yet widely available. Given current vaccine technology, a
pandemic vaccine might not be available for up to 6 months
(https://www.fda.gov/%20ForConsumers/ConsumerUpdates/ucm336267.htmexternal
icon). NPIs can be used before a pandemic is declared in areas where a novel
influenza A virus is detected and during a pandemic.

These 2017 guidelines provide evidence-based recommendations on the use of
NPIs in mitigating the effects of pandemic influenza. These guidelines update
and expand the 2007 strategy (https://stacks.cdc.gov/view/cdc/11425).*

Top

##  Purpose

The purpose of these guidelines is to help state, tribal, local, and
territorial health departments with prepandemic planning and decision-making
by providing updated recommendations on the use of NPIs. These recommendations
have incorporated lessons learned from the federal, state, and local responses
to the influenza A (H1N1)pdm09 virus pandemic (hereafter referred to as the
2009 H1N1 pandemic) and findings from research. Communities, families and
individuals, employers, and schools can create plans that use these
interventions to help slow the spread of a pandemic and prevent disease and
death.

Specific goals for implementing NPIs early in a pandemic include slowing
acceleration of the number of cases in a community, reducing the peak number
of cases during the pandemic and related health care demands on hospitals and
infrastructure, and decreasing overall cases and health effects ( Figure 1).
When a pandemic begins, public health authorities need to decide on an
appropriate set of NPIs for implementation and to reiterate the importance of
personal protective measures for everyday use (e.g., voluntary home isolation
of ill persons [staying home when ill], respiratory etiquette, and hand
hygiene) and environmental cleaning measures (e.g., routine cleaning of
frequently touched surfaces), which are recommended at all times for
prevention of respiratory illnesses ( Table 1). Personal protective measures
reserved for pandemics (e.g., voluntary home quarantine of exposed household
members [staying home when a household member is ill] and use of face masks by
ill persons) also might be recommended (Table 1). A more difficult decision is
how and when to implement community-level NPIs that might be warranted but are
more disruptive (e.g., temporary school closures and dismissals, social
distancing in workplaces and the community, and cancellation of mass
gatherings) (Table 1). These decisions are made by state and local officials
on the basis of conditions in the applicable jurisdictions, with guidance from
CDC (according to pandemic severity and potential efficacy) and governing
authorities ( _1_ ). Prepandemic planning, along with community engagement, is
an essential component of these decisions ( Table 2).

The decision regarding whether and when to recommend additional NPIs is
another component ( Table 3). State and local public health departments might
use certain influenza surveillance indicators to help decide when to consider
implementing NPIs such as school closures and dismissals and other social
distancing measures in schools, workplaces, and public settings during an
influenza pandemic. The choice of influenza surveillance indicators might
differ among states and localities, depending on the availability and capacity
of their public health resources. Examples of possible influenza surveillance
indicators include additional patient visits to health care providers for
influenza-like illness (ILI) and increased geographic spread of influenza
within a state. Indicators for school closures and dismissals might include
increased school absenteeism rates or the earliest laboratory-confirmed
influenza cases among students, teachers, or staff members. Indicators that
might help confirm that NPI implementation should continue include increased
influenza-associated hospitalizations or increases in adult or pediatric
deaths attributed to influenza. Additional information about NPI prepandemic
planning is available (supplementary Chapter 1
****https://stacks.cdc.gov/view/cdc/44313).

Top

##  Background

An influenza pandemic occurs when a novel virus emerges for which the majority
of the population has little or no immunity. Influenza pandemics are
facilitated by sustained human-to-human transmission, and the infection
spreads worldwide over a relatively short period ( _2_ ). The first influenza
pandemic of the 21st century began in 2009, 2 years after the 2007 strategy
for prepandemic planning was published. Lessons learned during the response to
the 2009 H1N1 pandemic underscored the importance of a flexible approach to
the use of NPIs, particularly during the early stages of a pandemic, and led
to the development of new tools for assessing pandemic severity and
prepandemic planning ( Box 1).

### Lessons Learned from the 2009 H1N1 Pandemic Response

The 2009 H1N1 pandemic was a reminder to be prepared for the unpredictable
nature of pandemics. Knowing in advance which subtype of pandemic virus will
emerge is impossible, as is where and when it will emerge, how quickly the
virus will spread, how severe the illness will be, and who will be the most
affected. Because of this unpredictability, prepandemic planning must be broad
and flexible.

The 2007 strategy for prepandemic planning was developed with the assumption
that the next influenza pandemic would be severe, like the 1957 pandemic,
which was characterized by high transmissibility and medium clinical severity.
When the 2007 strategy was developed, the primary concern was that a pandemic
virus might evolve from the highly pathogenic avian influenza A (H5N1) virus,
a virus that reemerged in Asia in 2003 in domestic poultry and spread to
Africa, the Middle East, and Europe among poultry, with sporadic zoonotic
transmission ( _37_ ). Moreover, CDC thought that this virus would most likely
emerge overseas, providing the United States with time to prepare for a
domestic response, including making use of prepandemic H5N1 vaccine in CDC's
Strategic National Stockpile. Instead, the 2009 pandemic influenza A virus
turned out to be a novel H1N1 virus that appears to have emerged in southern
Mexico and was first identified in two persons in California ( _13_ ).
Although the 2009 H1N1 pandemic in the United States was moderate in terms of
overall morbidity and mortality among the U.S. general population, severe
outcomes from H1N1pdm09 virus infection were more common among children, young
adults, and specific groups at risk for serious complications (e.g., pregnant
women) than among older adults (Box 1).

Although the emergence of the H1N1pdm09 virus prompted development of pandemic
vaccines, a pandemic vaccine was not available until October 2009, 6 months
after the initial report that identified the pandemic virus. In addition,
another 2 months were required (December 2009) for sufficient stocks to be
manufactured, distributed, and available to vaccinate several population
groups, including school-aged children and persons living with or caring for
infants aged <6 months, as recommended by the Advisory Committee on
Immunization Practices (ACIP).† Even though work is ongoing to accelerate the
pace of development, distribution, and administration of a vaccine during
future pandemics, this experience reaffirmed the importance of the use of NPIs
in the early stages of a pandemic before a well-matched vaccine is widely
available (i.e., vaccines produced using a virus that is very similar to the
circulating virus).

Another lesson learned about NPI implementation during the 2009 H1N1 pandemic
was that rapidly changing guidance can create confusion and difficulties
during implementation (Box 1) ( _30_ , _31_ ). Nevertheless, field studies
found that school-related NPIs, including school closures recommended to
mitigate the impact of the 2009 H1N1 pandemic during spring 2009, were
considered acceptable and feasible for most parents and caregivers, even when
parents had to miss work and in the absence of free or reduced-cost school
lunches for students ( _28_ , _38_ - _41_ ). Other interventions that reduced
the spread of H1N1pdm09 virus in some communities included hand hygiene ( _42_
), regularly scheduled school summer breaks ( _19_ ), and social distancing
measures, such as cancelling mass gatherings and closing public places ( _22_
).

### Community Engagement

The 2009 H1N1 pandemic underscored that effective prepandemic planning
requires the involvement of public health and local leaders, employers,
organizations, and stakeholders and is essential to ensure timely and
effective use of NPIs to limit disease spread during a pandemic ( Box 2).
Effective use of NPIs depends on the acceptance and participation of
individual persons who implement personal protective measures and of
communities that implement communitywide measures such as temporary school
closures (https://www.cdc.gov/phpr/capabilities/DSLR_capabilities_July.pdfpdf
icon).

The 2007 guidance took into account the results of a 2006 opinion poll
conducted with a representative national sample of 1,697 adults aged ≥18
years. The results indicated that when faced with an outbreak of pandemic
influenza, the majority of persons in the United States would be willing to
make major changes in their lives and cooperate with public health
recommendations on the use of NPIs (http://archive.sph.harvard.edu/press-
releases/2006-releases/press10262006.htmlexternal icon). Findings were similar
in a follow-up study during the 2009-2010 H1N1 pandemic (Box 1)
(https://www.hsph.harvard.edu/horp/project-on-the-public-response-
to-h1n1external icon).

For example, in 2006, 85% of the respondents said that they and all members of
their household would stay home for 7-10 days if another household member were
ill with pandemic influenza. The H1N1 opinion polls also identified barriers
to implementation of NPIs among persons and communities (e.g., the ability to
stay home when ill, job security, and income protection)
(https://www.hsph.harvard.edu/horp/project-on-the-public-response-
to-h1n1external icon). States and localities could establish local planning
councils or hold public engagement meetings that address these and other
issues related to public health preparedness, pandemic education, and
planning. States and local communities also can draw on planning guidance
provided in the CDC Public Health Preparedness Capabilities: National
Standards for State and Local Planning, which lists NPIs as one of 15
capabilities
(https://www.cdc.gov/phpr/capabilities/DSLR_capabilities_July.pdfpdf icon).
Additional information about pandemic influenza and NPI community engagement
is available (supplementary Chapter 1
****https://stacks.cdc.gov/view/cdc/44313).

### New Tools for Prepandemic Planning and Pandemic Assessment

#### Novel Influenza Virus Pandemic Intervals

In 2014, CDC updated its 2008 guidance on pandemic intervals to include six
intervals that describe influenza pandemic progression in a way that supports
flexible prepandemic preparedness and response. The intervals include 1)
investigation of novel influenza cases, 2) recognition of potential for
ongoing transmission, 3) initiation, 4) acceleration, 5) deceleration of the
pandemic wave, and 6) preparation for a future pandemic wave ( _43_ ). These
intervals can be used during prepandemic planning and can serve as a platform
for public health decision-making and actions during the beginning of a
potential influenza pandemic. Each interval is associated with particular
response activities, including implementation of select NPIs during the
initiation and acceleration intervals and coordinated discontinuation of
select community-level NPIs reserved for pandemics during the deceleration
interval ( Figure 2) ( Table 4). Although the six-interval framework describes
the sequence of pandemic disease evolution over time, the framework does not
characterize the transmissibility of the virus or the clinical severity of the
outbreak. Therefore, CDC has developed additional tools for pandemic planning
and response, including the Influenza Risk Assessment Tool (supplementary
Chapter 2 https://stacks.cdc.gov/view/cdc/44313);
https://www.cdc.gov/flu/pandemic-resources/tools/risk-assessment.htm) and the
Pandemic Severity Assessment Framework (PSAF). Additional information about
the pandemic intervals is available (supplementary Chapter 2
https://stacks.cdc.gov/view/cdc/44313).

#### Pandemic Severity Assessment Framework

An influenza pandemic can range from mild to extremely severe in terms of
clinical severity and transmission rate. When a pandemic emerges, public
health authorities should assess its projected impact and recommend rapid
action to reduce virus transmission, protect populations at high risk for
complications, and minimize societal disruption. As observed during the 2009
H1N1 pandemic response, attack rates and case-fatality ratios can be difficult
to measure early in a pandemic because of variations in care-seeking behavior
and testing practices; not everyone seeks care for their illness, and not
everyone is tested and receives a diagnosis of pandemic influenza. As a
result, severe cases might be more likely to be reported, resulting in an
overestimate of the case-hospitalization or case-fatality ratio. Tools for
prepandemic planning have been updated and augmented based on that experience,
and the Pandemic Severity Index in the 2007 guidance has been replaced with
PSAF. PSAF uses multiple clinical and epidemiologic indicators to provide a
more comprehensive assessment of the transmissibility and clinical severity of
an emerging pandemic. Whereas the Pandemic Severity Index was based on the
assumption that a future pandemic would cause an illness rate of 30% in the
U.S. population and relied on an assessment of case-fatality ratios to
determine severity of an evolving pandemic, PSAF incorporates multiple
measures of clinical severity (e.g., case-fatality ratios, case-
hospitalization ratios, and deaths-hospitalizations ratios) and viral
transmissibility (e.g., secondary household attack rates, school attack rates,
workplace attack rates, community attack rates, or all of these, as well as
rates of emergency department and outpatient visits for ILI) ( _44_ ).

When a pandemic begins, in the United States or anywhere in the world, CDC
makes an initial assessment of viral transmissibility and clinical severity on
the basis of these multiple PSAF measures ( Table 5) ( _44_ ). On the basis of
the initial assessment, CDC recommends that affected U.S. jurisdictions
respond (and other jurisdictions prepare to respond). Although data are
limited during the initial 3-4 weeks after the emergence of a pandemic virus,
these early data are compiled into a broad, preliminary assessment. CDC uses
PSAF scores of viral transmissibility and clinical severity to place the
pandemic within one of four assessment quadrants ( Figure 3). Depending on the
surveillance capacity in the location where the novel virus emerges and first
spreads, 4-8 weeks or longer might be required to accrue sufficient data for a
refined assessment of an evolving pandemic. Once data are available, the
refined assessment is used to more precisely characterize the clinical
severity and transmissibility of the pandemic virus ( Figure 4) ( Table 6).
These initial and refined assessments of pandemic severity are used, in
coordination with state and local public health partners, to guide the use of
NPI measures. Additional information about PSAF is available (supplementary
Chapter 2 https://stacks.cdc.gov/view/cdc/44313).

Top

##  Methods

### Guidelines Development Process

This 2017 update consists of three separate documents: this report and two
supplementary documents (https://stacks.cdc.gov/view/cdc/44313 and
https://stacks.cdc.gov/view/cdc/44314). This report provides a brief
introduction to pandemic influenza and NPIs; describes the 2007 strategy and
the purpose of the updates, particularly after the 2009 H1N1 pandemic;
outlines the methods used to develop this update and describe the evidence
considered for NPI use during an influenza pandemic; presents CDC's NPI
recommendations; and discusses key areas for further NPI research. The two
supplementary documents contain more specific and detailed information about
pandemic influenza and NPIs. One document (Technical Report 1
https://stacks.cdc.gov/view/cdc/44313) is divided into chapters and provides
an introduction to and overview of NPIs, a description of the new tools
developed for pandemic influenza planning and assessment, and a toolbox
describing the NPI evidence base, implementation issues, and research gaps.
The second document (Technical Report 2 https://stacks.cdc.gov/view/cdc/44314)
consists of several appendices that provide a glossary of terms, a detailed
description of the methods used for developing the NPI recommendations, a
comprehensive summary table of the NPI body of evidence, and a list of tools
and resources for pandemic influenza planning and preparedness.

This 2017 update was developed through collaboration involving input from
several sources, including peer-reviewed scientific literature, current
research, CDC subject-matter experts, and external stakeholders (e.g., federal
agencies, public health officials, and business and education partners).
Development of these updated guidelines involved participation by multiple CDC
groups (e.g., the Community Mitigation Guidelines Work Group and the
coordination, abstraction, and consultation teams), as well as a group of
external stakeholders who reviewed a document, summarizing the overall
direction and key principles and concepts of the guidelines. Input from the
work group members, subject-matter experts, and stakeholders was considered
and incorporated during the creation of the 2017 planning guidelines. The
guidelines were developed during October 2011-October 2016 ( Table 7). The
complete list of contributors and their roles in the process are available
(supplementary Appendix 2 https://stacks.cdc.gov/view/cdc/44314).

### Use of NPIs During Influenza Pandemics

Ten years ago, when the 2007 strategy was being developed, the evidence for
the use of NPIs during influenza pandemics was limited, consisting primarily
of historical analyses and contemporary observations rather than controlled
scientific studies ( _45_ , _46_ ). These analyses and observations were
supplemented by modeling studies that used historical data to evaluate NPI use
in U.S. cities during the 1918 pandemic ( _47_ , _48_ ) or that simulated
pandemic scenarios as they might occur in the future ( _49_ - _51_ ). The
simulations, like the historical analyses, generally supported the
effectiveness of early, targeted, and phased-in (layered) use of multiple
NPIs§ in preventing spread of disease, especially when used in combination
with antiviral medications ( _46_ , _49_ ). This conclusion seemed plausible,
confirming the presumption that individual, partially effective NPIs act in
complementary ways to decrease various factors that facilitate the spread of
influenza under different circumstances and settings ( _52_ ). However, the
NPI modeling studies had substantial limitations, including lack of data
supporting assumptions about the effectiveness of individual NPIs, economic
and social costs of NPIs, and likely rates of compliance ( _46_ , _49_ , _53_
).

In 2016, the evidence supporting the effectiveness of NPIs, both when used
alone and in combination, was more substantial and included controlled studies
evaluating different NPIs. New modeling studies based on data collected during
the 2009 H1N1 pandemic response also became available. This update is based on
approximately 191 journal articles written in English and published from 1990
through September 2016 that focused on personal protective measures in
general; school closure effectiveness and unintended consequences; school
absenteeism; spread of disease in child care facilities, colleges, and
universities; impact of mass gatherings; and role and impact of NPIs in non-
health care workplace settings. These articles were reviewed, abstracted, and
synthesized. To assess the strength of the evidence, a five-step NPI rating
scheme process was developed by adapting and applying the approach of the
_Guide to Community Preventive Services_ ( _The Community Guide_ )
(https://www.thecommunityguide.orgexternal icon). Additional information about
the NPI rating scheme process is available (supplementary Appendices 3 and 4
https://stacks.cdc.gov/view/cdc/44314).

The selected articles were organized into three groups: 1) personal NPIs
(personal protective measures for everyday use and personal protective
measures reserved for influenza pandemics); 2) community NPIs (social
distancing measures and school closures and dismissals); and 3) environmental
NPIs (surface cleaning measures) ( Table 8). Key steps included selecting the
relevant literature, abstracting and synthesizing the evidence, and assessing
the evidence quality (both individual study quality and quality of the body of
evidence). A recommendation was formulated based on the evidence of
effectiveness for each NPI. The strength of NPI recommendations took into
consideration the effectiveness of the intervention, the ease of
implementation (including unwanted consequences), and the importance of the
intervention as a public health strategy. Additional information about the NPI
evidence base is available (supplementary Chapter 3
https://stacks.cdc.gov/view/cdc/44313 and supplementary Appendix 5
****https://stacks.cdc.gov/view/cdc/44314).

Top

##  Recommendations on the Use of Personal, Community, and Environmental NPIs

NPIs routinely recommended for prevention of respiratory virus transmission,
such as seasonal influenza, include personal protective measures for everyday
use (i.e., voluntary home isolation of ill persons, respiratory etiquette, and
hand hygiene) and environmental surface cleaning measures (i.e., routine
cleaning of frequently touched surfaces and objects). During an influenza
pandemic, these NPIs are recommended regardless of the pandemic severity
level. Additional personal and community NPIs also might be recommended.
Personal protective measures reserved for pandemics include voluntary home
quarantine of exposed household members and use of face masks in community
settings when ill. Community NPIs might include temporary closures or
dismissals of child care facilities and schools with students in grades
kindergarten through 12 (K-12), as well as other social distancing measures
that increase the physical space between people (e.g., workplace measures such
as replacing in-person meetings with teleconferences or modifying, postponing,
or cancelling mass gatherings) ( Figure 5) (Table 1). Local decisions about
NPI selection and timing involve consideration of overall pandemic severity
and local conditions ( _1_ ) and require flexibility and possible
modifications as the pandemic progresses and new information becomes
available.

Updated recommendations on the use of NPIs to help slow the spread and
decrease the impact of an influenza pandemic are provided, as is information
on the rationale for using each NPI as part of a comprehensive public health
strategy for pandemic response and the appropriate settings and use for each
NPI according to the severity of the pandemic ( Table 9).¶ The recommendations
that follow are considered an update to the existing recommendations in the
2007 guidance because the same set of NPIs has been maintained and recommended
for use early in a pandemic. However, the difference between the guidance
issued in 2007 and in 2017 is the clear delineation of NPIs into two
categories: 1) NPIs recommended at all times and 2) NPIs recommended for use
only during pandemics (based on the level of pandemic severity and local
conditions). The 2017 update also provides additional evidence to support the
NPI recommendations.

### Personal NPIs

NPIs that can be implemented by individual persons include the following:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * **Personal protective measures for everyday use:** These include voluntary home isolation of ill persons, respiratory etiquette, and hand hygiene.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * **Personal protective measures reserved for pandemics:** These include voluntary home quarantine of exposed household members and use of face masks in community settings when ill.

#### Personal Protective Measures for Everyday Use

Personal protective measures are preventive actions that can be used daily to
slow the spread of respiratory viruses (https://www.cdc.gov/nonpharmaceutical-
interventions/personal/index.html; supplementary Chapter 3
****https://stacks.cdc.gov/view/cdc/44313). These measures include the
following:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * **Voluntary home isolation (i.e., staying home when ill or self-isolation):** Persons with influenza stay home for at least 24 hours after a fever or signs of a fever (chills, sweating, and feeling warm or flushed)** are gone (https://www.cdc.gov/flu/protect/preventing.htm), except to obtain medical care or other necessities.†† To ensure that the fever is gone, patients' temperature should be measured in the absence of medication that lowers fever (e.g., acetaminophen or ibuprofen). In addition to fever, common influenza symptoms include cough or chest discomfort, muscle or body aches, headache, and fatigue. Persons also might experience sneezing, a runny or stuffy nose, sore throat, vomiting, and diarrhea (https://www.cdc.gov/flu/consumer/symptoms.htm).

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * **Respiratory etiquette:** Persons cover coughs and sneezes, preferably with a tissue, and then dispose of tissues and disinfect hands immediately after a cough or sneeze, or (if a tissue is not available) cough or sneeze into a shirt sleeve. Touching the eyes, nose, and mouth should be avoided to help slow the spread of germs (https://www.cdc.gov/flu/protect/covercough.htm).

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * **Hand hygiene:** Persons perform regular and thorough hand washing with soap and water (or use alcohol-based hand sanitizers containing at least 60% ethanol or isopropanol when soap and water are not available).

**Rationale for use as a public health strategy**. Most persons infected with
an influenza virus might become infectious 1 day before the onset of symptoms
and remain infectious up to 5-7 days after becoming ill ( _54_ , _55_ ).
However, studies found that infants and immunocompromised persons might shed
influenza viruses for prolonged periods (up to 21 days and a mean of 19 days,
respectively) ( _56_ , _57_ ). The effectiveness of personal protective
measures depends on their ability to interrupt virus transmission from one
person to another. Voluntary home isolation, which is a form of patient
isolation, prevents an ill person from infecting other people outside of their
household.§§ Respiratory etiquette reduces the dispersion of droplets
contaminated with influenza virus being propelled through the air by coughing
or sneezing. Hand hygiene reduces the transmission of influenza viruses that
occurs when one person touches another (e.g., with a contaminated hand).
Contamination also can occur through self-inoculation via fomite transmission
(indirect contact transmission) when persons touch a contaminated surface and
then touch their nose with a contaminated hand. A study conducted in
households in Bangkok, Thailand, found that increased handwashing reduced
surface contamination with influenza virus, which lowered the potential for
self-inoculation via fomite transmission ( _58_ ). Additional studies found
that influenza viruses can remain viable on the human hand for roughly 3-5
minutes ( _59_ ) and that influenza viruses can remain on fingers for 30
minutes after contamination ( _60_ ).

**Settings and use**. Voluntary home isolation involves persons remaining at
home when ill with influenza. Respiratory etiquette and hand hygiene are
recommended in homes and in all other community settings, including schools
and workplaces. All three personal protective measures are considered everyday
preventive actions that should be implemented year-round but that are
especially important during annual influenza seasons and influenza pandemics (
Table 10). Use of these personal protective measures might result in some
secondary (unintended or unwanted) consequences (e.g., concerns about job
security for ill persons who lack paid sick leave or skin irritations due to
frequent hand washing).

**CDC recommendations**

**Voluntary home isolation:** CDC recommends voluntary home isolation of ill
persons (staying home when ill) year-round and especially during annual
influenza seasons and influenza pandemics.

**Respiratory etiquette and hand hygiene:** CDC recommends respiratory
etiquette and hand hygiene in all community settings, including homes, child
care facilities, schools, workplaces, and other places where people gather,
year-round and especially during annual influenza seasons and influenza
pandemics.



#### Personal Protective Measures Reserved for Pandemics

Voluntary home isolation, respiratory etiquette, and hand hygiene are
recommended during both annual influenza seasons and influenza pandemics.
Additional personal protective measures that might be recommended during
pandemics include voluntary home quarantine of exposed household members and
the use of face masks in community settings when ill. These measures might
contribute to reductions in transmission of pandemic influenza viruses when
the level of pandemic severity and local conditions warrant their use
(supplementary Chapter 3 ****https://stacks.cdc.gov/view/cdc/44313).

##### Voluntary Home Quarantine

Voluntary home quarantine of non-ill household members of persons with
influenza (also called self-quarantine or household quarantine) helps prevent
disease spread from households to schools, workplaces, and other households
because those household members have been exposed to the influenza virus.
Exposed household members of symptomatic persons (with confirmed or probable
pandemic influenza) should stay home for up to 3 days (the estimated
incubation period for seasonal influenza) ( _61_ ) starting from their initial
contact with the ill person. If they then become ill, they should practice
voluntary home isolation (i.e., they should remain at home until recovered as
discussed previously; https://www.cdc.gov/quarantine/index.html). For certain
exposed household members (e.g., those at high risk for influenza
complications or with severe immune deficiencies), guidelines should be
consulted regarding the prophylactic use of antiviral medications
(https://www.cdc.gov/flu/professionals/antivirals/index.htm).

**Rationale for use as a public health strategy**. Voluntary home quarantine
might help slow a pandemic by reducing community transmission from households
with a person who has influenza because the exposed household members are at
increased risk for infection. Furthermore, certain infected (but not yet
symptomatic) household members could begin shedding influenza virus at least a
day before exhibiting symptoms and could infect friends, neighbors, and others
in the community (e.g., at school or work) before becoming symptomatic.
Therefore, all members of a household with a symptomatic person (with
confirmed or probable pandemic influenza) might be asked to stay home for a
specified period of time (up to 3 days) to assess for early signs and symptoms
of pandemic influenza virus infection. If other household members become ill
during this period, then the time for voluntary home quarantine might need to
be extended for another incubation period. The evidence for voluntary home
quarantine, particularly when used in combination with other NPIs, includes a
systematic literature review, historical analyses of the 1918 pandemic, and
mathematical modeling studies (supplementary Chapter 3
https://stacks.cdc.gov/view/cdc/44313 and supplementary Appendix 5
https://stacks.cdc.gov/view/cdc/44314).

**Settings and use.** Voluntary home quarantine of exposed household members
might be recommended during severe, very severe, or extreme influenza
pandemics (Table 10) to help reduce the chance of transmitting the virus to
others outside of the household. Advance planning is needed to minimize
potential secondary consequences for persons who have special cultural,
economic, legal, mental, physical, or social status needs (e.g., older adults
who depend on necessary community-based services such as home-delivered meals
and transportation to health care services). Other secondary consequences
might include missed work and loss of income for persons whose employers do
not have paid sick leave policies that include home quarantine during
pandemics.

**CDC recommendations**

**Voluntary home quarantine:** CDC might recommend voluntary home quarantine
of exposed household members as a personal protective measure during severe,
very severe, or extreme influenza pandemics in combination with other personal
protective measures such as respiratory etiquette and hand hygiene. If a
member of the household is symptomatic with confirmed or probable pandemic
influenza, then all members of the household should stay home for up to 3 days
(the estimated incubation period for seasonal influenza),¶¶ starting from
their initial contact with the ill person, to monitor for influenza symptoms.



##### Use of Face Masks in Community Settings

Face masks (disposable surgical, medical, or dental procedure masks) are
widely used by health care workers to prevent respiratory infections both in
health care workers and patients. They also might be worn by ill persons
during severe, very severe, or extreme pandemics to prevent spread of
influenza to household members and others in the community. However, little
evidence supports the use of face masks by well persons in community settings,
although some trials conducted during the 2009 H1N1 pandemic found that early
combined use of face masks and other NPIs (such as hand hygiene) might be
effective (supplementary Chapter 3 https://stacks.cdc.gov/view/cdc/44313).

**Rationale for use as a public health strategy.** Face masks provide a
physical barrier that prevents the transmission of influenza viruses from an
ill person to a well person by blocking large-particle respiratory droplets
propelled by coughing or sneezing. Face mask use by well persons is not
routinely needed in most situations to prevent acquiring the influenza virus.
However, use of face masks by well persons might be beneficial in certain
situations (e.g., when persons at high risk for influenza complications cannot
avoid crowded settings or parents are caring for ill children at home). Face
mask use by well persons also might reduce self-inoculation (e.g., touching
the nose with the hand after touching a contaminated surface).

**Settings and use.** Disposable surgical, medical, and dental procedure masks
are used widely in health care settings to prevent exposure to respiratory
infections. Face masks have few secondary consequences (e.g., discomfort or
difficulty breathing) when worn properly and consistently, and face masks
sized for children are available. (Additional information about face masks is
available at
https://www.fda.gov/medicaldevices/productsandmedicalprocedures/generalhospitaldevicesandsupplies/personalprotectiveequipment/ucm055977.htmexternal
icon and https://www.osha.gov/Publications/respirators-vs-surgicalmasks-
factsheet.htmlexternal icon.)

**CDC recommendations**

**Use of face masks by ill persons:** CDC might recommend the use of face
masks by ill persons as a source control measure during severe, very severe,
or extreme influenza pandemics when crowded community settings cannot be
avoided (e.g., when adults and children with influenza symptoms seek medical
attention) or when ill persons are in close contact with others (e.g., when
symptomatic persons share common spaces with other household members or
symptomatic postpartum women care for and nurse their infants). Some evidence
indicates that face mask use by ill persons might protect others from
infection.

**Use of face masks by well persons:** CDC does not routinely recommend the
use of face masks by well persons in the home or other community settings as a
means of avoiding infection during influenza pandemics except under special,
high-risk circumstances
(https://www.cdc.gov/flu/professionals/infectioncontrol/maskguidance.htm). For
example, during a severe pandemic, pregnant women and other persons at high
risk for influenza complications might use face masks if unable to avoid
crowded settings, especially if no pandemic vaccine is available. In addition,
persons caring for ill family members at home (e.g., a parent of a child
exhibiting influenza symptoms) might use face masks to avoid infection when in
close contact with a patient, just as health care personnel wear masks in
health care settings.



### Community NPIs

NPIs that can be implemented by communities include the following:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * **School closures and dismissals:** These include temporary closures and dismissals of child care facilities, K-12 schools, and institutions of higher education.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * **Social distancing measures:** These include measures for schools, workplaces, and mass gatherings.

#### School Closures and Dismissals

In the event of a pandemic, state and local public health authorities play an
important role in protecting the school community and should establish and
maintain partnerships with district and school leaders, school emergency
operations planning teams, and local municipality leaders (e.g., mayors).
Public health authorities are a credible source of information, have multiple
(often free) resources available for information awareness campaigns, and
provide guidance for increasing school response measures. Depending on the
severity of the pandemic, these measures might range from everyday preventive
actions to preemptive, coordinated school closures and dismissals. A school
closure means closing a school and sending all the students and staff members
home, whereas during a school dismissal, a school might stay open for staff
members while the children stay home. Preemptive school dismissals can be used
to disrupt transmission of influenza before many students and staff members
become ill. Coordinated dismissals refer to the simultaneous or sequential
closing of schools in a jurisdiction. Thus, preemptive, coordinated school
closures and dismissals can be used early during an influenza pandemic to
prevent virus transmission in schools and surrounding communities by reducing
close contact among the following groups (supplementary Chapter 3
https://stacks.cdc.gov/view/cdc/44313):

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Children in child care centers and preschools

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * School-aged children and teens in K-12 schools

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Young adults in institutions of higher education

During a dismissal, the school facilities are kept open, which allows teachers
to develop and deliver lessons and materials, thus maintaining continuity of
teaching and learning, and allows other staff members to continue to provide
services and help with additional response efforts. School closures and
dismissals might be coupled with social distancing measures (e.g., cancelling
sporting events and other mass gatherings) to reduce out-of-school social
contact among children when schools are closed.

**Rationale for use as a public health strategy.** Preventing the spread of
disease in educational settings among children and young adults reduces the
risk for infection for these age groups and slows virus transmission in the
community. Components of the strategy might include preemptive, coordinated
school closures and dismissals implemented during the earliest stages of a
pandemic, before many students and staff members become ill. Preemptive,
coordinated dismissals can be implemented by the following facilities for the
following reasons:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Child care facilities and K-12 schools

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Children have higher influenza attack rates than adults ( _62_ ) and are infectious for a longer period than adults ( _63_ , _64_ ).

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Influenza transmission is common in schools and contributes to school absenteeism and parental absenteeism from work ( _65_ , _66_ ).

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The presence of school-aged children in a household is a risk factor for influenza virus infection in families ( _62_ , _65_ , _67_ ).

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Social contact and mixing patterns among school-aged children differ substantially depending on the grade and school level, during various periods of the school day, between weekdays and weekends, and between regular school terms and holiday breaks ( _68_ - _71_ ). Physical floor plans and intergrade activities (e.g., cafeteria size and lunch breaks) also can affect in-school social mixing ( _68_ ).

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Schoolchildren can introduce the influenza virus into a community, leading to increased rates of illness among their household or community contacts ( _72_ - _74_ ).

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Institutions of higher education

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Influenza outbreaks on college and university campuses typically have high attack rates (44%-73%) ( _75_ - _78_ ) and cause substantial morbidity ( _79_ , _80_ ). For example, during the 2009 H1N1 pandemic, influenza spread rapidly through a university campus within 2 weeks ( _81_ ); on another residential campus, one infected freshman initiated an outbreak that resulted in 226 laboratory-confirmed cases. Freshmen were the main facilitators of the spread of the H1N1pdm09 virus because of their higher number and frequency of social contacts ( _82_ ).

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Influenza is more prevalent among residential students at boarding schools and colleges than among nonresidential students ( _78_ , _83_ ).

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ILIs are common among college and university students and are associated with increased health care use, decreased health status, and impaired school performance ( _84_ ).

Implementation of preemptive, coordinated school closures and dismissals
during an evolving influenza pandemic might have one or more of the following
three public health objectives***:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * **Objective 1:** To gain time for an initial assessment of transmissibility and clinical severity of the pandemic virus in the very early stage of its circulation in humans (closures for up to 2 weeks)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * **Objective 2:** To slow down the spread of the pandemic virus in areas that are beginning to experience local outbreaks and thereby allow time for the local health care system to prepare additional resources for responding to increased demand for health care services (closures up to 6 weeks)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * **Objective 3:** To allow time for pandemic vaccine production and distribution (closures up to 6 months)

Two other types of school closures and dismissals might be implemented during
a pandemic for public health or institutional reasons. These interventions do
not slow disease spread in the community; therefore, they are not considered
NPIs. They include the following:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * **Selective school closures and dismissals:** These might be implemented by schools that serve students at high risk for complications from infection with influenza,††† especially when transmission rates are high. For example, a school that serves children with certain medical conditions or pregnant teens might decide to close while other schools in the area remain open. In addition, some communities or early childhood programs might consider closing child care facilities to help decrease the spread of influenza among children aged <5 years. Selective dismissals are intended to protect persons at high risk for influenza rather than to help reduce virus transmission within the community.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * **Reactive school closures and dismissals:** These might be implemented when many students and staff members are ill and not attending school or when many students and staff members are arriving at school ill and being sent home. For example, a child care center might close because it is unable to operate under these conditions. Reactive dismissals, which might occur during outbreaks of seasonal influenza ( _85_ ) and during pandemics ( _15_ ), are unlikely to affect virus transmission because they typically take place after considerable, if not widespread, transmission has already occurred in the community. For example, a 4-day reactive closure in a western Kentucky school district did not reduce ILI transmission in the rural community ( _86_ ). Similarly, closing 559 Michigan schools at least once during the fall wave (i.e., second wave) of the 2009 H1N1 pandemic had little effect on community levels of ILI ( _87_ ).

For more information about preparing for influenza and the different types of
dismissals, see CDC websites regarding 1) child care facilities
(https://www.cdc.gov/h1n1flu/childcare/toolkit/pdf/childcare_toolkit.pdfpdf
icon), 2) K-12 schools
(https://www.cdc.gov/h1n1flu/schools/toolkit/pdf/schoolflutoolkit.pdfpdf
icon), and 3) institutions of higher education
(https://www.cdc.gov/h1n1flu/institutions/toolkit/pdf/IHE_toolkit.pdfpdf
icon).

**Settings and use.** Preemptive, coordinated school closures and dismissals
might be implemented at child care facilities, K-12 schools, and institutions
of higher education. They are most likely to be implemented when an influenza
pandemic is severe, very severe, or extreme (Table 10). Secondary consequences
include missed work and loss of income for parents who stay home from work to
care for their children and missed opportunities to vaccinate school-aged
children rapidly unless other mechanisms are considered.

**CDC recommendations**

**School closures and dismissals:** CDC might recommend the use of preemptive,
coordinated school closures and dismissals during severe, very severe, or
extreme influenza pandemics. This recommendation is in accord with the
conclusions of the U.S. Community Preventive Services Task Force
(https://www.thecommunityguide.org/findings/emergency-preparedness-and-
response-school-dismissals-reduce-transmission-pandemic-influenzaexternal
icon), which makes the following recommendations:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * The task force recommends preemptive, coordinated school dismissals during a severe influenza pandemic.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * The task force found insufficient evidence to recommend for or against preemptive, coordinated school dismissals during a mild or moderate influenza pandemic. In these instances, jurisdictions should make decisions that balance local benefits and potential harms.



#### Social Distancing Measures for Schools, Workplaces, and Mass Gatherings

Social distancing measures can reduce virus transmission by decreasing the
frequency and duration of social contact among persons of all ages. These
measures are common-sense approaches to limiting face-to-face contact, which
reduces person-to-person transmission.

**Rationale for use as a public health strategy.** Social distancing measures
that reduce opportunities for person-to-person virus transmission can help
delay the spread and slow the exponential growth of a pandemic. The optimal
strategy is to implement these measures simultaneously in places where persons
gather. Although direct evidence is limited for the effectiveness of these
measures, components of the strategy might include reducing social contacts at
the following places:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * **Schools:** Children have higher influenza attack rates than adults, and influenza transmission is common in schools.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * **Workplaces:** More than half of all U.S. adults participate in the U.S workforce,§§§ and workers often share office space and equipment and have frequent face-to-face contact. Influenza attack rates in working-age adults (aged 18-64 years) might be as high as 15.5% during a single influenza season ( _88_ ).

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * **Mass gatherings:** Group events such as concerts, festivals, and sporting events bring people into close contact for extended periods ( _89_ - _92_ ). A systematic literature review of respiratory disease outbreaks related to mass gatherings in the United States during 2005-2014 indicated that 40 of 72 different outbreaks were associated with state or county agriculture fairs and (zoonotic) transmission of influenza A H3N2v, and 25 outbreaks were associated with residential youth summer camps and person-to-person transmission of influenza A H1N1 ( _93_ ). An infected traveler attending a mass gathering might introduce influenza to a previously unaffected area, and a person who becomes infected at the event can further spread the infection after returning home ( _89_ , _90_ , _92_ , _94_ - _96_ ). Even when a circulating virus has a relatively low basic reproductive rate ( _R 0_), intensely crowded settings might lead to high secondary attack rates ( _92_ ). For example, during the 2013 Hajj (Islamic pilgrimage to Mecca) in Saudi Arabia, influenza A/H1N1 virus was found in only two Indonesians on arrival but spread to 25 persons from Africa, Central Asia, and Southeast Asia after the Hajj because of the extremely crowded conditions when performing rituals ( _97_ ).

Multiple social distancing measures can be implemented simultaneously.
Although there is limited empirical evidence supporting the effectiveness of
implementing any individual measure alone (other than school closures and
dismissals), the evidence for implementing multiple social distancing measures
in combination with other NPIs includes systematic literature reviews,
historical analyses of the 1918 pandemic, and mathematical modeling studies
(supplementary Chapter 3 https://stacks.cdc.gov/view/cdc/44313 and
supplementary Appendix 5 https://stacks.cdc.gov/view/cdc/44314).

**Settings and use _._** Social distancing measures can be implemented in a
range of community settings, including educational facilities, workplaces, and
public places where people gather (e.g., parks, religious institutions,
theaters, and sports arenas). The choice of social distancing measure depends
on the severity of the pandemic (Table 10). Certain measures might be
implemented with few secondary consequences (e.g., increased use of e-mail and
teleconferences in some workplaces), whereas others might require advance
planning (e.g., modification of mass gatherings). Examples of practical
measures that might reduce face-to-face contact in community settings include
the following:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * If schools remain open during a pandemic, divide school classes into smaller groups of students and rearrange desks so students are spaced at least 3 feet ( _98_ ) from each other in a classroom.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Offer telecommuting and replace in-person meetings in the workplace with video or telephone conferences.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Modify, postpone, or cancel mass gatherings.

**CDC recommendations**

**Social distancing measures:** Even though the evidence base for the
effectiveness of some of these measures is limited, CDC might recommend the
simultaneous use of multiple social distancing measures to help reduce the
spread of influenza in community settings (e.g., schools, workplaces, and mass
gatherings) during severe, very severe, or extreme influenza pandemics while
minimizing the secondary consequences of the measures. Social distancing
measures include the following:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Increasing the distance to at least 3 feet ( _98_ ) between persons when possible might reduce person-to person transmission. This applies to apparently healthy persons without symptoms. In the event of a very severe or extreme pandemic, this recommended minimal distance between people might be increased.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Persons in community settings who show symptoms consistent with influenza and who might be infected with (probable) pandemic influenza should be separated from well persons as soon as practical, be sent home, and practice voluntary home isolation.



### Environmental NPIs: Environmental Surface Cleaning Measures

Environmental surface cleaning measures can help eliminate influenza viruses
from frequently touched surfaces and objects, including tables, door knobs,
toys, desks, and computer keyboards. These measures involve cleaning surfaces
with detergent-based cleaners or disinfectants that have been registered with
the Environmental Protection Agency _._ ¶¶¶

**Rationale for use as a public health strategy.** Although the percentage of
influenza cases involving contact transmission (i.e., hand transfer of virus
from contaminated objects to the eyes, nose, or mouth) is unknown, this mode
of transmission is a recognized route of virus spread ( _99_ ). The routine
use of cleaning measures that eliminate viruses from contaminated surfaces
might reduce the spread of influenza viruses (supplementary Chapter 3
https://stacks.cdc.gov/view/cdc/44313).

**Settings and use.** Environmental surface cleaning measures are recommended
for frequently touched surfaces and objects in homes, child care facilities,
schools, workplaces, and other places where persons gather. These measures can
be used for prevention of seasonal influenza and in all pandemic severity
scenarios (Table 10). Use of these measures might result in some secondary
consequences (e.g., failing to read instruction labels before applying
disinfectants to ensure that they are safe and appropriate to use or cleaning
with poor ventilation during the application process).

**CDC recommendations**

**Environmental surface cleaning measures:** CDC recommends environmental
surface cleaning measures in all settings, including homes, schools, and
workplaces, to remove influenza viruses from frequently touched surfaces and
objects. Use of these measures might help prevent transmission of various
infectious agents, including seasonal and pandemic influenza
(https://www.cdc.gov/nonpharmaceutical-interventions/environmental/index.html;
https://www.cdc.gov/oralhealth/infectioncontrol/questions/cleaning-
disinfecting-environmental-surfaces.html).

Additional guidance is available from CDC for health care facilities
(https://www.cdc.gov/hicpac/pdf/guidelines/eic_in_HCF_03.pdfpdf icon), schools
(https://www.cdc.gov/flu/school/cleaning.htm), and airline, travel, and
transportation industries (https://www.cdc.gov/flu/pandemic-
resources/archived/transportation-planning.html).

Top

##  Discussion

This report expands the NPI guidance presented in the 2007 report by providing
evidence-based recommendations on the use of the same set of NPIs. These NPIs
include personal protective measures for everyday use and for use during a
pandemic, community measures (school closures and dismissals and social
distancing), and environmental surface cleaning measures.

### Key Concepts Maintained from 2007 Guidance

The rationale for and key concepts regarding the use of NPIs during influenza
pandemics first presented in the 2007 guidance remain unchanged. Because
production of a pandemic vaccine can take up to 6 months and antiviral
medications might be prioritized for treatment, NPIs are likely to be the only
prevention tools available early in a pandemic. Therefore, they are critical
to slowing the spread of the pandemic influenza virus while a pandemic vaccine
is under development.

Like the 2007 strategy, this 2017 update affirms the importance of prepandemic
planning and preparedness for use of NPIs during a pandemic response and
recommends the early, targeted, and simultaneous implementation of multiple
NPIs to decrease influenza virus transmission. Although community-level NPIs
can help slow virus transmission, as supported by historical information (
_100_ ), empirical observations ( _101_ ), and mathematical modeling ( _102_
), these measures are likely to cause unwanted consequences by introducing new
norms for social behavior (e.g., adopting precautionary health-protective
behaviors such as limiting face-to-face contact with family and friends, only
shopping for essential items, avoiding places where people congregate, or not
using public transportation) ( _103_ ), interrupting routine societal
functions, and entailing additional costs. If an evolving influenza pandemic
is characterized by high clinical severity, the benefits of deploying NPIs,
including those with greater potential for secondary consequences, are likely
to outweigh potential harms. The more difficult decision is determining how
and when to implement the community-level NPIs that are more disruptive to
society (e.g., temporary K-12 school closures) during pandemics of moderate
severity. In each locality, the goal should be to implement NPIs early enough
and long enough to maximize effectiveness while minimizing economic and social
costs to ensure that NPIs are commensurate to the pandemic severity.

### New Elements Added in 2017

New elements in this report, in addition to the evidence-based NPI
recommendations, include a summary of key lessons learned from the 2009 H1N1
pandemic response (Box 1), information on community engagement and
preparedness (supplementary Chapter 1 https://stacks.cdc.gov/view/cdc/44313),
and information on new or updated pandemic assessment tools (supplementary
Chapter 2 https://stacks.cdc.gov/view/cdc/44313), which include the novel
influenza virus pandemic intervals tool, the Influenza Risk Assessment Tool,
and PSAF. As described in the following sections, this report also presents
two additional planning tools designed to assist states and localities in
ensuring pandemic preparedness.

#### Prepandemic Planning Scenarios for NPI Implementation According to
Pandemic Severity

During the initial stages of a pandemic, CDC will use the PSAF tool to prepare
an initial assessment of pandemic severity that provides early guidance on use
of NPIs to help slow the transmission of the novel virus. To facilitate the
use of the initial assessment information by state and local health
departments, CDC has provided a set of four prepandemic planning scenarios.
Each scenario aligns with one of the four assessment quadrants (Figure 3) and
provides information on past influenza pandemics for comparison (Table 9).
These planning scenarios are designed to facilitate state and local
prepandemic planning for NPI implementation according to pandemic severity (as
classified by PSAF) ( Figure 6) (Tables 9 and 10). After sufficient
epidemiologic data are accrued and the refined assessment of pandemic severity
becomes available, CDC will issue updated pandemic NPI guidance, which will be
tailored more precisely to the specific pandemic. Additional information about
the planning scenarios and phasing of NPIs is available (supplementary Chapter
2 https://stacks.cdc.gov/view/cdc/44313).

#### Supplemental Prepandemic NPI Planning Guides

The 2007 report included supplemental prepandemic NPI planning guides for
individuals and families; child care programs, K-12 schools, and institutions
of higher education; community- and faith-based organizations; and businesses
and other workplaces. These guides have been updated, and two new guides have
been developed for public health communicators and event planners that address
NPI communications and modification, postponement, or cancellation of mass
gatherings. These guides are intended to help operationalize the 2017 update
and provide specific information that can assist different groups in their
prepandemic planning and decision-making
(https://www.cdc.gov/nonpharmaceutical-interventions).

### Future Research

Although progress has been made since 2009 toward building the evidence base
for use of NPIs to slow the spread of pandemic influenza, additional research
is needed. For personal NPIs, areas for additional research include evaluating
the effects of increased frequency and quality of hand washing on influenza
virus transmission, determining the role of infected persons who are not
symptomatic in the transmission of influenza viruses in households, and
assessing the effectiveness, acceptability, and feasibility of recommending
face mask use by well persons in community settings as a means of avoiding
infection during a pandemic. For community NPIs, one topic for additional
study involves gathering empirical data on social mixing patterns in schools
and community settings. These data can be used to create high-fidelity, high-
resolution mathematical models of virus transmission in these settings to
facilitate data-driven evaluations of different social distancing measures.
Another area of research for community NPIs involves assessing the potential
secondary consequences (e.g., missed work) of select community-level measures
(e.g., school closures) for families, communities, and society to assess the
economic effects of these measures. For environmental NPIs, additional
research is needed to better understand surface contamination (e.g., which
types of surfaces are more likely to be contaminated with influenza viruses)
and identify situations in which surface cleaning should be emphasized (e.g.,
in households with confirmed influenza cases versus in healthy households).
Additional information about NPI research gaps is available (supplementary
Chapter 3 https://stacks.cdc.gov/view/cdc/44313).

Top

##  Conclusion

The 2009 H1N1 pandemic provided an opportunity to test, in practice, the key
concepts of NPIs in mitigating the impact of an influenza pandemic, just 2
years after the publication of the 2007 guidance. As the experience from 2009
has shown, NPIs can be a critical component of pandemic influenza mitigation.
Although well-matched pandemic vaccines remain the main tool in reducing the
risk of acquiring infection and in controlling the spread of a pandemic virus,
vaccines might not be widely available for up to 6 months after the emergence
of a pandemic influenza virus, given current vaccine production technology.
Furthermore, as during the 2009 H1N1 pandemic, antiviral medications might be
prioritized for treatment but not used for widespread chemoprophylaxis because
of concerns about antiviral resistance and limited stockpiles of antiviral
medications. Therefore, NPIs might be the only prevention tools readily
available for persons and communities to help slow transmission of an
influenza virus during the initial stages of a pandemic. However, individual
NPIs might be only partially effective in limiting community transmission when
implemented alone. Thus, the most efficient implementation involves early,
targeted, and layered use of multiple NPIs (https://www.cdc.gov/flu/pandemic-
resources/planning-preparedness/community-mitigation.html). In addition, some
community-level NPIs that potentially have the greatest epidemiologic effects
on pandemic influenza virus transmission in communities, most notably school
closures and dismissals, also are most likely to be associated with secondary
(unwanted) consequences ( _104_ ). Hence, prepandemic planning, including
engaging communities in planning activities well ahead of the next pandemic,
is critical to enable appropriate local decision-making during the early
stages of a pandemic.

After the 2009 H1N1 pandemic, evidence on the effectiveness and feasibility of
NPIs expanded substantially. A summary of the evidence in this 2017 update
includes 2009 H1N1-related research (supplementary Appendix 5
****https://stacks.cdc.gov/view/cdc/44314). However, knowledge gaps remain and
should be addressed by future research. Further updates of these guidelines
will be developed and issued when significant new information and evidence
emerges about the effectiveness and feasibility of NPIs in mitigating the
impact of pandemic influenza.

Top

### CDC Community Mitigation Guidelines Work Group

Alexandra Levitt, PhD, Office of Infectious Diseases, CDC,; Stephanie Dopson,
ScD, Influenza Coordination Unit, Office of Infectious Diseases, CDC; Mark
Frank, MPH, Influenza Coordination Unit, Office of Infectious Diseases, CDC;
Rachel Holloway, Influenza Coordination Unit, Office of Infectious Diseases,
CDC; Lisa Koonin, DrPH, Influenza Coordination Unit, Office of Infectious
Diseases, CDC; Sonja Rasmussen, MD, Influenza Coordination Unit, Office of
Infectious Diseases, CDC; Stephen Redd, MD, Influenza Coordination Unit,
Office of Infectious Diseases, CDC; Christopher de la Motte Hurst, MPH,
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine, National Center for Emerging and
Zoonotic Infectious Diseases, CDC; Neha Kanade, MPH, Division of Global
Migration and Quarantine, National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious
Diseases, CDC; Noreen Qualls, DrPH, Division of Global Migration and
Quarantine, National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases,
CDC; Jeanette Rainey, PhD, Division of Global Migration and Quarantine,
National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases, CDC; Amra
Uzicanin, MD, Division of Global Migration and Quarantine, National Center for
Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases, CDC; Matthew Biggerstaff, MPH,
Influenza Division, National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases,
CDC; Daniel Jernigan, MD, Influenza Division, National Center for Immunization
and Respiratory Diseases, CDC; Carrie Reed, DSc, Influenza Division, National
Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases, CDC.

Top

###  CDC Community Mitigation Guidelines Teams

Coordination Team

Alexandra Levitt, PhD, Office of Infectious Diseases; Narue Wright-Jegede,
MPH, Neha Kanade, MPH, and Noreen Qualls, DrPH, Division of Global Migration
and Quarantine, National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases,
CDC.

Abstraction Team

Yao-Hsuan Chen, PhD, Charissa Dowdye, MPH, Hongjiang Gao, PhD, Narue Wright-
Jegede, MPH, Neha Kanade, MPH, Jasmine Kenney, MPH, Erin Keyes, MPH, Tiffani
Phelps, MPH, Noreen Qualls, DrPH, Jeanette Rainey, PhD, Jianrong Shi, MD,
Karen Wong, MD, and Yenlik Zheteyeva, MD, Community Interventions for
Infection Control Unit, Division of Global Migration and Quarantine, National
Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases, CDC.

Consultation Team

Maleeka Glover, ScD, Influenza Coordination Unit, Office of Infectious
Diseases; Rita Helfand, MD, Office of the Director, National Center for
Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases; Clive Brown, FRSPH, Martin Cetron,
MD, Pamela Diaz, MD, Katrin Kohl, MD, PhD, David McAdam, MPA, and Jessica
Reichard, Division of Global Migration and Quarantine, National Center for
Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases; Bryan Christensen, PhD, Carolyn
Gould, MD, Jeff Hageman, MD, John Jernigan, MD, and David Kuhar, MD, Division
of Healthcare Quality Promotion, National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic
Infectious Diseases; William Potts-Datema, MS, and Mary Vernon-Smiley, MD,
Division of Adolescent and School Health, National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral
Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention; Belinda Smith and Teresa Smith, RN, Health
Communication Science Office, National Center for Immunization and Respiratory
Diseases; Carolyn Bridges, MD, and Samuel Graitcer, MD, Immunization Services
Division, National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases; Joseph
Bresee, MD, Influenza Division, National Center for Immunization and
Respiratory Diseases; Lisa Delaney, MD, and Chad Dowell, MD, Office of the
Director, National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health; Samuel
Groseclose, DVM, Laura Leidel, MSN, and Carol Pertowski, MD, Office of the
Director, Office of Public Health Preparedness and Response; Steven
Boedigheimer, MBA, Christa Singleton, MD, Theresa Smith, MD, and Todd Talbert,
MA, Division of State and Local Readiness, Office of Public Health
Preparedness and Response, CDC.

Top

### Conflict of Interest

The CDC contributors wish to disclose that they have no financial or competing
interests or other relationships that would unfairly influence these CDC
guidelines and recommendations.

Top

 **Corresponding author:** Noreen Qualls, Division of Global Migration and
Quarantine, National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases,
CDC. Telephone: 404-639-8195; E-mail: nqualls@cdc.gov.

Top

* * *

1Division of Global Migration and Quarantine, National Center for Emerging and
Zoonotic Infectious Diseases, CDC, Atlanta, Georgia; 2Office of Infectious
Diseases, CDC, Atlanta, Georgia; 3Eagle Medical Services, San Antonio, Texas;
4Karna, Atlanta, Georgia; 5Division of State and Local Readiness, Office of
Public Health Preparedness and Response, CDC, Atlanta, Georgia; 6Influenza
Division, National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases, CDC,
Atlanta, Georgia

Top

  

* The updated 2017 planning guidelines do not address pandemic vaccine development and distribution, use of respirators in community or health care settings during a pandemic, or travel restrictions during a pandemic. Guidance and policies in these areas will be developed separately, as needed.

† In July 2009, ACIP recommended vaccination of several population groups,
including children aged 6 months through 18 years because cases of H1N1
influenza had occurred in children who were in close contact with each other
in school and child care settings
(https://www.cdc.gov/h1n1flu/vaccination/acip.htm).

§ The pandemic mitigation framework proposed in the 2007 strategy was based on
the early, targeted, and layered use of multiple NPIs. NPIs should be
initiated early in a pandemic before local epidemics grow exponentially, be
targeted toward those at the nexus of transmission (in affected areas where
the novel virus circulates), and be layered together to reduce community
transmission as much as possible. A list of NPIs that are recommended at all
times and those that are reserved for pandemics is provided (Table 1).

¶ Influenza pandemics can range from mild to extreme in terms of rates of
viral transmission and clinical severity, as described in the four prepandemic
planning scenarios developed by CDC. A very severe or extreme pandemic, such
as the 1918 pandemic, is characterized by high to very high transmissibility
and clinical severity. A severe pandemic, such as the pandemics of 1957 and
1968, is characterized by high transmissibility and low to medium clinical
severity. A mild or moderate pandemic, such as the 2009 pandemic, is
characterized by low to medium transmissibility and clinical severity.

** Although many authorities use either 100°F or 100.4°F (37.8°C) as
indicative of fever, this number can vary depending on factors such as the
method of measurement and the age of the person. Therefore, other values for
fever could be appropriate. CDC has public health recommendations that are
based on the presence (or absence) of fever (i.e., persons' temperature is not
higher than their own normal temperature).

†† Guidance for caring for persons at home who have influenza symptoms is
available at https://www.cdc.gov/flu/consumer/caring-for-someone.htm.

§§ Additional information about isolation and quarantine is available at
https://www.cdc.gov/quarantine/QuarantineIsolation.html.

¶¶ If the incubation period for the next pandemic were shorter or longer than
3 days, CDC would amend the recommendation accordingly.

*** Additional information on the use of preemptive, coordinated school
closures and dismissals of different durations is available (supplementary
Chapter 3 https://stacks.cdc.gov/view/cdc/44313).

††† Persons at high risk for influenza-related complications include children
aged <5 years (and especially aged <2 years), adults aged ≥65 years, pregnant
women, residents of nursing homes and other long-term care facilities, and
American Indians/Alaska Natives. Those at high risk also include persons with
asthma, neurological and neurodevelopmental conditions, chronic lung disease,
and heart disease; disorders of the blood, endocrine system, kidney, or liver;
metabolic disorders; and weakened immune systems from disease or medication.
Two other groups at higher risk are persons aged <19 years who receive long-
term aspirin therapy and those with extreme obesity
(https://www.cdc.gov/flu/about/disease/high_risk.htm).

§§§ As of September 2016, the U.S. workforce included 62.9% of the civilian,
noninstitutionalized population aged ≥16 years ( **Source** : US Bureau of
Labor Statistics. The employment situation--September 2016. Washington, DC: US
Department of Labor; 2016.
https://www.bls.gov/news.release/archives/empsit_10072016.pdfpdf iconexternal
icon).

¶¶¶ Antimicrobial products registered for use against H1N1 influenza and other
influenza A viruses on hard surfaces
(https://archive.epa.gov/pesticides/oppad001/web/pdf/influenza-a-product-
list.pdfpdf iconexternal icon).

Top

##  References

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1. Barrios LC, Koonin LM, Kohl KS, Cetron M. Selecting nonpharmaceutical strategies to minimize influenza spread: the 2009 influenza A (H1N1) pandemic and beyond. Public Health Rep 2012;127:565-71\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2. Monto AS, Webster RG. [Chapter 2]. In: Webster RG, Monto AS, Braciale TJ, Lamb RA, eds. Textbook of influenza. 2nd. West Sussex, UK: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd; 2013:20-33.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3. Shrestha SS, Swerdlow DL, Borse RH, et al. Estimating the burden of 2009 pandemic influenza A (H1N1) in the United States (April 2009-April 2010). Clin Infect Dis 2011;52(Suppl 1):S75-82\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4. Jhung MA, Swerdlow D, Olsen SJ, et al. Epidemiology of 2009 pandemic influenza A (H1N1) in the United States. Clin Infect Dis 2011;52(Suppl 1):S13-26\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5. CDC. Updated CDC estimates of 2009 H1N1 influenza cases, hospitalizations, and deaths in the United States, April 2009-April 10, 2010. Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 2010. https://www.cdc.gov/h1n1flu/estimates_2009_h1n1.htm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6. Labrosse B, Tourdjman M, Porcher R, et al. Detection of extensive cross-neutralization between pandemic and seasonal A/H1N1 influenza viruses using a pseudotype neutralization assay. PLoS One 2010;5:e11036. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    7. Nougairede A, Ninove L, Zandotti C, et al. Novel virus influenza A (H1N1sw) in South-Eastern France, April-August 2009. PLoS One 2010;5:e9214. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    8. CDC. Use of influenza A (H1N1) 2009 monovalent vaccine: recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP), 2009. MMWR Recomm Rep 2009;58(No. RR-10). PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    9. Fell DB, Sprague AE, Liu N, et al. Better Outcomes Registry & Network (BORN) Ontario. H1N1 influenza vaccination during pregnancy and fetal and neonatal outcomes. Am J Public Health 2012;102:e33-40\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    10. Richards JL, Hansen C, Bredfeldt C, et al. Neonatal outcomes after antenatal influenza immunization during the 2009 H1N1 influenza pandemic: impact on preterm birth, birth weight, and small for gestational age birth. Clin Infect Dis 2013;56:1216-22\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    11. CDC. Update: novel influenza A (H1N1) virus infection--Mexico, March-May, 2009. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2009;58:585-9\. PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    12. CDC. CDC guidance for state and local public health officials and school administrators for school (K-12) responses to influenza during the 2009-2010 school year. Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 2010. https://www.cdc.gov/h1n1flu/schools/schoolguidance.htm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    13. CDC. Swine influenza A (H1N1) infection in two children--Southern California, March-April 2009. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2009;58:400-2\. PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    14. CDC. Telebriefing on investigation of human cases of H1N1 flu. Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC. May 5, 2009. https://www.cdc.gov/media/transcripts/2009/t090505.htm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    15. Kann L, Kinchen S, Modzelski B, et al. ILI-related school dismissal monitoring system: an overview and assessment. Disaster Med Public Health Prep 2012;6:104-12\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    16. Talaat M, Afifi S, Dueger E, et al. Effects of hand hygiene campaigns on incidence of laboratory-confirmed influenza and absenteeism in schoolchildren, Cairo, Egypt. Emerg Infect Dis 2011;17:619-25\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    17. Chao DL, Halloran ME, Longini IM . School opening dates predict pandemic influenza A(H1N1) outbreaks in the United States. J Infect Dis 2010;202:877-80\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    18. Copeland DL, Basurto-Davila R, Chung W, et al. Effectiveness of a school district closure for pandemic influenza A (H1N1) on acute respiratory illnesses in the community: a natural experiment. Clin Infect Dis 2013;56:509-16\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    19. Earn DJ, He D, Loeb MB, Fonseca K, Lee BE, Dushoff J. Effects of school closure on incidence of pandemic influenza in Alberta, Canada. Ann Intern Med 2012;156:173-81\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    20. Chowell G, Echevarria-Zuno S, Viboud C, et al. Characterizing the epidemiology of the 2009 influenza A/H1N1 pandemic in Mexico. PLoS Med 2011;8:e1000436. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    21. Community Preventive Services Task Force. Emergency preparedness: school dismissals to reduce transmission of pandemic influenza [Internet]. Guide to Community Preventive Services (The Community Guide); US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 2012. https://www.thecommunityguide.org/findings/emergency-preparedness-and-response-school-dismissals-reduce-transmission-pandemic-influenzaexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    22. Herrera-Valdez MA, Cruz-Aponte M, Castillo-Chavez C. Multiple outbreaks for the same pandemic: local transportation and social distancing explain the different "waves" of A-H1N1pdm cases observed in Mexico during 2009. Math Biosci Eng 2011;8:21-48\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    23. Nasrullah M, Breiding MJ, Smith W, et al. Response to 2009 pandemic influenza A H1N1 among public schools of Georgia, United States--fall 2009. Int J Infect Dis 2012;16:e382-90\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    24. Kimberlin DW, Escude J, Gantner J, et al. Targeted antiviral prophylaxis with oseltamivir in a summer camp setting. Arch Pediatr Adolesc Med 2010;164:323-7\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    25. Ward KA, Armstrong P, McAnulty JM, Iwasenko JM, Dwyer DE. Outbreaks of pandemic (H1N1) 2009 and seasonal influenza A (H3N2) on cruise ship. Emerg Infect Dis 2010;16:1731-7\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    26. Pebody RG, Harris R, Kafatos G, et al. Use of antiviral drugs to reduce household transmission of pandemic (H1N1) 2009, United Kingdom. Emerg Infect Dis 2011;17:990-9\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    27. Harvard TH Chan School of Public Health. Harvard Opinion Research Program [Internet]. Public response to H1N1. Boston, MA: Harvard TH Chan School of Public Health. https://www.hsph.harvard.edu/horp/project-on-the-public-response-to-h1n1external icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    28. CDC. Parental attitudes and experiences during school dismissals related to 2009 influenza A (H1N1)--United States, 2009. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2010;59:1131-4\. PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    29. Agolory SG, Barbot O, Averhoff F, et al. Implementation of non-pharmaceutical interventions by New York City public schools to prevent 2009 influenza A. PLoS One 2013;8:e50916. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    30. Klaiman T, Kraemer JD, Stoto MA. Variability in school closure decisions in response to 2009 H1N1: a qualitative systems improvement analysis. BMC Public Health 2011;11:73. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    31. Enanoria WT, Crawley AW, Tseng W, Furnish J, Balido J, Aragon TJ. The epidemiology and surveillance response to pandemic influenza A (H1N1) among local health departments in the San Francisco Bay Area. BMC Public Health 2013;13:276. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    32. Drago R, Miller K. Sick at work: infected employees in the workplace during the H1N1 pandemic. Institute for Women's Policy Research; 2010: No. B264.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    33. Potter MA, Brown ST, Cooley PC, et al. School closure as an influenza mitigation strategy: how variations in legal authority and plan criteria can alter the impact. BMC Public Health 2012;12:977. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    34. Bell DM, Weisfuse IB, Hernandez-Avila M, Del Rio C, Bustamante X, Rodier G. Pandemic influenza as 21st century urban public health crisis. Emerg Infect Dis 2009;15:1963-9\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    35. SteelFisher GK. Blendon RJ, Kang M, et al. Adoption of preventive behaviors in response to the 2009 H1N1 influenza pandemic: a multiethnic perspective. Influenza Other Respir Viruses 2015;9:131-42.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    36. Quinn SC, Parmer J, Freimuth VS, Hilyard KM, Musa D, Kim KH. Exploring communication, trust in government, and vaccination intention later in the 2009 H1N1 pandemic: results of a national survey. Biosecur Bioterror 2013;11:96-106\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    37. Peiris JSM, Yu WC, Leung CW, et al. Re-emergence of fatal human influenza A subtype H5N1 disease. Lancet 2004;363:617-9\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    38. Gift TL, Palekar RS, Sodha SV, et al. ; Pennsylvania H1N1 Working Group. Household effects of school closure during pandemic (H1N1) 2009, Pennsylvania, USA. Emerg Infect Dis 2010;16:1315-7\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    39. Borse RH, Behravesh CB, Dumanovsky T, et al. Closing schools in response to the 2009 pandemic influenza A H1N1 virus in New York City: economic impact on households. Clin Infect Dis 2011;52(Suppl 1):S168-72\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    40. Chen WC, Huang AS, Chuang JH, Chiu CC, Kuo HS. Social and economic impact of school closure resulting from pandemic influenza A/H1N1. J Infect 2011;62:200-3\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    41. Mizumoto K, Yamamoto T, Nishiura H. Contact behaviour of children and parental employment behaviour during school closures against the pandemic influenza A (H1N1-2009) in Japan. J Int Med Res 2013;41:716-24\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    42. Lau CH, Springston EE, Sohn MW, et al. Hand hygiene instruction decreases illness-related absenteeism in elementary schools: a prospective cohort study. BMC Pediatr 2012;12:52. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    43. Holloway R, Rasmussen SA, Zaza S, Cox NJ, Jernigan DB. Updated preparedness and response framework for influenza pandemics. MMWR Recomm Rep 2014;63(No. RR-6). PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    44. Reed C, Biggerstaff M, Finelli L, et al. Novel framework for assessing epidemiologic effects of influenza epidemics and pandemics. Emerg Infect Dis 2013;19:85-91\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    45. Bell D, Nicoll A, Fukuda K, et al. World Health Organization Writing Group. Non-pharmaceutical interventions for pandemic influenza, national and community measures. Emerg Infect Dis 2006;12:88-94\. PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    46. Morse SS, Garwin RL, Olsiewski PJ. Public health. Next flu pandemic: what to do until the vaccine arrives? Science 2006;314:929. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    47. Hatchett RJ, Mecher CE, Lipsitch M. Public health interventions and epidemic intensity during the 1918 influenza pandemic. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 2007;104:7582-7\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    48. Markel H, Lipman HB, Navarro JA, et al. Nonpharmaceutical interventions implemented by US cities during the 1918-1919 influenza pandemic. JAMA 2007;298:644-54\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    49. Institute of Medicine (US). Modeling community containment for pandemic influenza: a letter report. Washington, DC: The National Academies Press; 2006.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    50. Wu JT, Riley S, Fraser C, Leung GM. Reducing the impact of the next influenza pandemic using household-based public health interventions. PLoS Med 2006;3:e361. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    51. Ferguson NM, Cummings DA, Fraser C, Cajka JC, Cooley PC, Burke DS. Strategies for mitigating an influenza pandemic. Nature 2006;442:448-52\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    52. Institute of Medicine (US) Forum on Microbial Threats. The domestic and international impacts of the 2009-H1N1 influenza A pandemic. Global challenges, global solutions: workshop summary. Washington, DC: The National Academies Press; 2010.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    53. Halloran ME, Ferguson NM, Eubank S, et al. Modeling targeted layered containment of an influenza pandemic in the United States. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 2008;105:4639-44\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    54. Collignon PJ, Carnie JA. Infection control and pandemic influenza. Med J Aust 2006;185(Suppl):S54-7\. PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    55. Brankston G, Gitterman L, Hirji Z, Lemieux C, Gardam M. Transmission of influenza A in human beings. Lancet Infect Dis 2007;7:257-65\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    56. Hall CB, Douglas RG . Nosocomial influenza infection as a cause of intercurrent fevers in infants. Pediatrics 1975;55:673-7\. PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    57. Memoli MJ, Athota R, Reed S, et al. The natural history of influenza infection in the severely immunocompromised vs nonimmunocompromised hosts. Clin Infect Dis 2014;58:214-24\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    58. Levy JW, Suntarattiwong P, Simmerman JM, et al. Increased hand washing reduces influenza virus surface contamination in Bangkok households, 2009-2010\. Influenza Other Respir Viruses 2014;8:13-6\. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    59. Bean B, Moore BM, Sterner B, Peterson LR, Gerding DN, Balfour HH . Survival of influenza viruses on environmental surfaces. J Infect Dis 1982;146:47-51\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    60. Thomas Y, Boquete-Suter P, Koch D, Pittet D, Kaiser L. Survival of influenza virus on human fingers. Clin Microbiol Infect 2014;20:O58-64\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    61. Cori A, Valleron AJ, Carrat F, Scalia Tomba G, Thomas G, Boelle PY. Estimating influenza latency and infectious period durations using viral excretion data. Epidemics 2012;4:132-8\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    62. Molinari NA, Ortega-Sanchez IR, Messonnier ML, et al. The annual impact of seasonal influenza in the U.S.: measuring disease burden and costs. Vaccine 2007;25:5086-96\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    63. Sato M, Hosoya M, Kato K, Suzuki H. Viral shedding in children with influenza virus infections treated with neuraminidase inhibitors. Pediatr Infect Dis J 2005;24:931-2\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    64. Hall CB, Douglas RG , Geiman JM, Meagher MP. Viral shedding patterns of children with influenza B infection. J Infect Dis 1979;140:610-3\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    65. Neuzil KM, Hohlbein C, Zhu Y. Illness among schoolchildren during influenza season: effect on school absenteeism, parental absenteeism from work, and secondary illness in families. Arch Pediatr Adolesc Med 2002;156:986-91\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    66. Glezen WP, Couch RB, MacLean RA, et al. Interpandemic influenza in the Houston area, 1974-76\. N Engl J Med 1978;298:587-92\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    67. Fox JP, Cooney MK, Hall CE, Foy HM. Influenzavirus infections in Seattle families, 1975-1979\. II. Pattern of infection in invaded households and relation of age and prior antibody to occurrence of infection and related illness. Am J Epidemiol 1982;116:228-42\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    68. Guclu H, Read J, Vukotich CJ , et al. Social contact networks and mixing among students in K-12 schools in Pittsburgh, PA. PLoS One 2016;11:e0151139. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    69. Leecaster M, Toth DJ, Pettey WB, et al. Estimates of social contact in a middle school based on self-report and wireless sensor data. PLoS One 2016;11:e0153690. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    70. Hens N, Ayele GM, Goeyvaerts N, et al. Estimating the impact of school closure on social mixing behaviour and the transmission of close contact infections in eight European countries. BMC Infect Dis 2009;9:187. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    71. Eames KT, Tilston NL, White PJ, Adams E, Edmunds WJ. The impact of illness and the impact of school closure on social contact patterns. Health Technol Assess 2010;14:267-312\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    72. Nichol KL, Lind A, Margolis KL, et al. The effectiveness of vaccination against influenza in healthy, working adults. N Engl J Med 1995;333:889-93\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    73. Monto AS, Davenport FM, Napier JA, Francis T . Modification of an outbreak of influenza in Tecumseh, Michigan by vaccination of schoolchildren. J Infect Dis 1970;122:16-25\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    74. Reichert TA, Sugaya N, Fedson DS, Glezen WP, Simonsen L, Tashiro M. The Japanese experience with vaccinating schoolchildren against influenza. N Engl J Med 2001;344:889-96\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    75. Mogabgab WJ. Acute respiratory illnesses in university (1962-1966), military and industrial (1962-1963) populations. Am Rev Respir Dis 1968;98:359-79\. PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    76. Layde PM, Engelberg AL, Dobbs HI, et al. Outbreak of influenza A/USSR/77 at Marquette University. J Infect Dis 1980;142:347-52\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    77. Sobal J, Loveland FC. Infectious disease in a total institution: a study of the influenza epidemic of 1978 on a college campus. Public Health Rep 1982;97:66-72\. PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    78. Pons VG, Canter J, Dolin R. Influenza A/USSR/77 (H1N1) on a university campus. Am J Epidemiol 1980;111:23-30\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    79. Nichol KL, Heilly SD, Ehlinger E. Colds and influenza-like illnesses in university students: impact on health, academic and work performance, and health care use. Clin Infect Dis 2005;40:1263-70\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    80. Nichol KL, D'Heilly S, Ehlinger E. Burden of upper respiratory illnesses among college and university students: 2002-2003 and 2003-2004 cohorts. Vaccine 2006;24:6724-5\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    81. Iuliano AD, Reed C, Guh A, et al. Notes from the field: outbreak of 2009 pandemic influenza A (H1N1) virus at a large public university in Delaware, April-May 2009. Clin Infect Dis 2009;49:1811-20\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    82. Wang L, Chu C, Yang G, et al. Transmission characteristics of different students during a school outbreak of (H1N1) pdm09 influenza in China, 2009. Sci Rep 2014;4:5982. PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    83. Glass RI, Brann EA, Slade JD, et al. Community-wide surveillance of influenza after outbreaks due to H3N2 (A/Victoria/75 and A/Texas/77) and H1N1 (A/USSR/77) influenza viruses, Mercer County, New Jersey, 1978. J Infect Dis 1978;138:703-6\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    84. Nichol KL, D'Heilly S, Ehlinger EP. Influenza vaccination among college and university students: impact on influenzalike illness, health care use, and impaired school performance. Arch Pediatr Adolesc Med 2008;162:1113-8\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    85. Wong KK, Shi J, Gao H, et al. Why is school closed today? Unplanned K-12 school closures in the United States, 2011-2013\. PLoS One 2014;9:e113755. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    86. Russell ES, Zheteyeva Y, Gao H, et al. Reactive school closure during increased influenza-like illness (ILI) activity in Western Kentucky, 2013: a field evaluation of effect on ILI incidence and economic and social consequences for families. Open Forum Infect Dis 2016;3:ofw113. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    87. Davis BM, Markel H, Navarro A, Wells E, Monto AS, Aiello AE. The effect of reactive school closure on community influenza-like illness counts in the state of Michigan during the 2009 H1N1 pandemic. Clin Infect Dis 2015;60:e90-7\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    88. Gatwood J, Meltzer MI, Messonnier M, Ortega-Sanchez IR, Balkrishnan R, Prosser LA. Seasonal influenza vaccination of healthy working-age adults: a review of economic evaluations. Drugs 2012;72:35-48\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    89. Balkhy HH, Memish ZA, Bafaqeer S, Almuneef MA. Influenza a common viral infection among Hajj pilgrims: time for routine surveillance and vaccination. J Travel Med 2004;11:82-6\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    90. Abubakar I, Gautret P, Brunette GW, et al. Global perspectives for prevention of infectious diseases associated with mass gatherings. Lancet Infect Dis 2012;12:66-74\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    91. Gutierrez I, Litzroth A, Hammadi S, et al. Community transmission of influenza A (H1N1)v virus at a rock festival in Belgium, 2-5 July 2009. Euro Surveill 2009;14:19294. PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    92. Rashid H, Haworth E, Shafi S, Memish ZA, Booy R. Pandemic influenza: mass gatherings and mass infection. Lancet Infect Dis 2008;8:526-7\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    93. Rainey JJ, Phelps T, Shi J. Mass gatherings and respiratory disease outbreaks in the United States--should we be worried? Results from a systematic literature review and analysis of the National Outbreak Reporting System. PLoS One 2016;11:e0160378. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    94. Blyth CC, Foo H, van Hal SJ, et al. World Youth Day 2008 Influenza Study Group. Influenza outbreaks during World Youth Day 2008 mass gathering. Emerg Infect Dis 2010;16:809-15\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    95. Shi P, Keskinocak P, Swann JL, Lee BY. The impact of mass gatherings and holiday traveling on the course of an influenza pandemic: a computational model. BMC Public Health 2010;10:778. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    96. Benkouiten S, Charrel R, Belhouchat K, et al. Circulation of respiratory viruses among pilgrims during the 2012 Hajj pilgrimage. Clin Infect Dis 2013;57:992-1000\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    97. Memish ZA, Assiri A, Turkestani A, et al. Mass gathering and globalization of respiratory pathogens during the 2013 Hajj. Clin Microbiol Infect 2015;21:571.e1-8\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    98. Bischoff WE, Swett K, Leng I, Peters TR. Exposure to influenza virus aerosols during routine patient care. J Infect Dis 2013;207:1037-46\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    99. Weber TP, Stilianakis NI. Inactivation of influenza A viruses in the environment and modes of transmission: a critical review. J Infect 2008;57:361-73\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    100. Langmuir AD, Pizzi M, Trotter WY, Dunn FL. [Asian influenza surveillance]. Public Health Rep 1958;73:114-20\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    101. Lim HC, Cutter J, Lim WK, Ee A, Wong YC, Tay BK. The influenza A (H1N1-2009) experience at the inaugural Asian Youth Games Singapore 2009: mass gathering during a developing pandemic. Br J Sports Med 2010;44:528-32\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    102. Kelso JK, Milne GJ, Kelly H. Simulation suggests that rapid activation of social distancing can arrest epidemic development due to a novel strain of influenza. BMC Public Health 2009;9:117. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    103. Sadique MZ, Edmunds WJ, Smith RD, et al. Precautionary behavior in response to perceived threat of pandemic influenza. Emerg Infect Dis 2007;13:1307-13\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    104. Berkman BE. Mitigating pandemic influenza: the ethics of implementing a school closure policy. J Public Health Manag Pract 2008;14:372-8\. CrossRefexternal icon PubMedexternal icon

Top

#####  ![Return to your place in the
text](//www.cdc.gov/images/arrow_up.gif)**FIGURE 1**. **Goals of community
mitigation for pandemic influenza**  

![This figure includes two curves, with daily number of influenza cases on the
y axis and days since first case on the x axis. One curve shows a pandemic
with intervention, and the other curve shows a pandemic without intervention.
The curve without intervention begins to slope upward before the curve with
intervention and also peaks at a higher point. Goals of community mitigation
are shown on the â€œwithout interventionâ€ curve and include 1\) slow
acceleration of number of cases, 2\) reduce peak number of cases and related
demands on hospitals and infrastructure, and 3\) reduce number of cases
overall and health effects.](/mmwr/volumes/66/rr/figures/r6601a1f1.gif)

**Source:** Adapted from: CDC. Interim pre-pandemic planning guidance:
community strategy for pandemic influenza mitigation in the United States--
early, targeted, layered use of nonpharmaceutical interventions. Atlanta, GA:
US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 2007.
https://stacks.cdc.gov/view/cdc/11425.

Top

#####  ![Return to your place in the
text](//www.cdc.gov/images/arrow_up.gif)**TABLE 1**. **Nonpharmaceutical
interventions for personal and community preparedness to prevent pandemic
influenza**  

NPI category* | NPIs | Timing  
---|---|---  
**Personal**  
Personal protective measures for everyday use | Voluntary home isolation of
ill persons (staying home when ill) | Recommended at all times  
Respiratory etiquette  
Hand hygiene  
Personal protective measures reserved for pandemics | Voluntary home
quarantine of exposed household members (staying home for up to 3 days† when a
household member is ill) | Reserved for pandemics  
Use of face masks in community settings when ill  
**Community**  
School closures and dismissals§ | Temporary, preemptive, coordinated
dismissals of child care facilities and schools for grades K-12¶ | Reserved
for pandemics  
Social distancing measures (examples) | Dividing classes into smaller groups
and creating opportunities for distance learning (e.g., via the internet or
local television or radio stations) | Reserved for pandemics  
Telecommuting and remote-meeting options in workplaces  
Mass gathering modifications, postponements, or cancellations  
**Environmental**  
Environmental surface cleaning measures | Routine cleaning of frequently
touched surfaces and objects in homes, child care facilities, schools, and
workplaces | Recommended at all times  
  
**Abbreviation:** NPI = nonpharmaceutical intervention.  
*Personal, community, and environmental NPIs should be 1) initiated early in a pandemic before local epidemics begin to grow exponentially, 2) targeted toward the nexus of transmission (in affected areas where the novel virus circulates), and 3) layered together to reduce community transmission to the greatest extent possible.  
†If the incubation period for the next pandemic influenza virus is longer or
shorter than 3 days, CDC will amend the recommendation.  
§A school closure involves closing a school and sending all the students and
staff members home. A school dismissal could involve a school staying open for
staff members while the students stay home.  
¶Preemptive, coordinated dismissals might be implemented early during a
pandemic to decrease the spread of influenza before many students and staff
members become ill. Selective dismissals might be implemented by schools that
serve students at high risk for complications from infection with influenza.
Reactive dismissals might be implemented when many students and staff members
are ill and not attending school or when many students and staff members are
arriving at school ill and being sent home. Selective and reactive dismissals
do not help slow disease transmission in the community.

Top

#####  ![Return to your place in the
text](//www.cdc.gov/images/arrow_up.gif)**TABLE 2**. **Factors to consider
before implementing nonpharmaceutical interventions during an influenza
pandemic**  

Planning factors | Planning goals | Activities  
---|---|---  
Ethical considerations |

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Community engagement in prepandemic planning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Equitable distribution of public health resources during a pandemic
|

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Promoting public input into NPI planning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Ensuring that NPIs benefit all groups within a community
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Carefully considering and justifying any restrictions on individual freedom needed to implement NPIs (e.g., voluntary home quarantine of exposed household members)  
Feasibility of NPI implementation |

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Minimal interruption of regular programs and activities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Selection of NPIs that are practical to implement within each community
|

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Identifying practical obstacles to NPI implementation and considering ways to overcome them. Examples include the following: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Educational issues (e.g., missed educational opportunities or loss of free or subsidized school meals because of school dismissals)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Financial issues (e.g., workers who cannot afford to stay home when they are ill or to care for an ill family member because they do not have paid sick leave)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Legal issues (e.g., local jurisdictions that do not have the legal authority to close schools or cancel mass gatherings for public health reasons)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Workplace issues (e.g., access to clean water, soap, or hand sanitizer and flexible workplace policies or arrangements)  
Activation triggers, layering, and duration of NPIs |

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Optimal implementation of NPIs during a pandemic
|

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Maximizing the effectiveness of NPIs by taking the following actions: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Identifying activation triggers to ensure early implementation of NPIs before explosive growth of the pandemic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Planning for simultaneous use of multiple NPIs because each NPI is only partially effective
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Planning for long-term duration of school dismissals and social distancing measures  
Selecting NPIs for groups at risk for severe influenza complications and for
those with limited access to care and services |

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Protection of persons most at risk for severe illness or death during a pandemic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Protection of persons who might need additional assistance during a pandemic response, including persons with disabilities and other access and functional needs
|

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Identifying strategies for implementing NPIs among groups at high risk for severe influenza-related complications, including the following: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Pregnant women
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Persons aged <5 yrs and ≥65 yrs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Persons with underlying chronic diseases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Persons in institutions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Identifying strategies for implementing NPIs among groups who might experience barriers to or difficulties with accessing or receiving medical care and services, including the following: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Persons who are culturally, geographically, or socially isolated or economically disadvantaged
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Persons with physical disabilities, limitations, or impairments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Persons with low incomes, single-parent families, and residents of public housing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Persons who live in medically underserved communities  
Public acceptance of NPIs |

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Active participation in NPI implementation during a pandemic
|

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Promoting public understanding that individual action is essential for effective implementation of NPIs in every pandemic scenario. In many scenarios, both personal and community NPIs might be recommended. NPI recommendations might change as new knowledge is gained.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Identifying key personnel to disseminate emergency information (e.g., alerts, warnings, and notifications) and establishing communication channels that enable members of the public to ask questions and express concerns (e.g., call centers or social media sites)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Ensuring that school dismissals and other NPIs are acceptable to the community during a pandemic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Coordinating with local partners to support households complying with voluntary home quarantine (e.g., providing necessary food and supplies)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Identifying strategies for mitigating the secondary consequences of school dismissals and other social distancing measures (e.g., modifications or cancellations of mass gatherings)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Minimizing intervention fatigue* during a pandemic  
Balancing public health benefits and social costs |

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Maximization of NPI public health benefits and minimization of social and economic costs during a pandemic
|

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Estimating economic and social costs of NPIs and their secondary (unintended or unwanted) consequences
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Balancing those costs against public health benefits, with reference to different prepandemic planning scenarios
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Identifying strategies for reducing the cost of NPI implementation  
Monitoring and evaluation of NPIs |

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Ongoing guidance during a pandemic on optimal NPI implementation, maintenance, and discontinuation
|

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Identifying ways to monitor and evaluate the following: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Degree of transmission and severity of the evolving pandemic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Type and degree of NPI implementation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Level of compliance with NPI measures and the emergence of intervention fatigue
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Effectiveness of NPIs in mitigating pandemic impact
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Secondary consequences of NPIs and the effectiveness of strategies to mitigate them  
  
**Abbreviation:** NPI = nonpharmaceutical intervention.  
**Source:** Adapted from: Barrios LC, Koonin LM, Kohl KS, Cetron M. Selecting
nonpharmaceutical strategies to minimize influenza spread: the 2009 influenza
A (H1N1) pandemic and beyond. Public Health Rep 2012;127:565-71.  
*Fatigue that results from being requested, often repeatedly, to change daily behaviors for the good of the community, especially when those changes disrupt daily life (e.g., caring for children when schools are dismissed for several weeks or avoiding crowded settings) ( **Source:** Ryan JR, ed. Pandemic influenza: emergency planning and community preparedness. 2008. Boca Raton, FL: CRC Press; 2008:158).

Top

#####  ![Return to your place in the
text](//www.cdc.gov/images/arrow_up.gif)**TABLE 3**. **Examples of possible
nonpharmaceutical intervention surveillance indicators for an influenza
pandemic**  

Key influenza indicator | U.S. data source | Measure of influenza activity  
---|---|---  
**Indicators of spread or level of influenza activity**  
Percentage of patient visits to health care providers for ILI in the United
States | Outpatient ILI Surveillance Network (ILINet), which includes
approximately 2,900 enrolled outpatient health care providers in 50 states |
Current ILI level in relation to most recent national and region-specific
baseline levels, with CDC providing baseline values for the 10 HHS
surveillance regions and for the United States as a whole  
https://www.cdc.gov/flu/weekly/overview.htm  
ILI activity by state: percentage of outpatient visits for ILI in a state
(ranges from minimal to high) | Outpatient ILI Surveillance Network (ILINet)  
Additional: Flu Near You https://flunearyou.org/external icon | Ten activity
levels that compare the mean reported percent of visits due to ILI for the
current week to noninfluenza weeks, specifying the number of standard
deviations at or above the mean for the current week  
https://www.cdc.gov/flu/weekly/FluViewInteractive.htm  
Geographic spread of influenza in a state (ranges from none to widespread) |
State and Territorial Epidemiologists reports | Estimated weekly levels of
geographic spread (local, regional, or widespread) of influenza activity
reported by state health departments  
https://www.cdc.gov/flu/weekly/overview.htm  
Percentage of respiratory specimens that test positive for influenza viruses
in the United States | Approximately 110 U.S. WHO collaborating laboratories
and 240 National Respiratory and Enteric Virus Surveillance System
laboratories | National and regional percentage of respiratory specimens
testing positive for influenza viruses  
https://www.cdc.gov/flu/weekly/FluViewInteractive.htm  
Absenteeism rates due to ILI in child care facilities, K-12 schools, or
colleges and universities (reflects number of ILI cases) | ILI
monitoring/surveillance systems in child care facilities, K-12 schools, or
colleges and universities | Increased absenteeism rates due to ILI in child
care facilities, K-12 schools, or colleges and universities (reflects
increased number of ILI cases)  
Laboratory-confirmed influenza cases among students, teachers, and staff
members | Increases in laboratory-confirmed influenza cases among students,
teachers, and staff members  
Laboratory-confirmed outbreaks of influenza in child care facilities, K-12
schools, or colleges and universities  
**Indicators of clinical severity of influenza**  
Influenza-associated hospitalizations | Influenza Hospitalization Surveillance
Network (FluSurv-NET), which collects data from the 10 Emerging Infections
Program sites, as well as Michigan, Ohio, and Utah
(https://wwwnc.cdc.gov/eid/article/21/9/14-1912_article) | Population-based
rate of influenza-associated hospitalizations in multiple geographic areas  
https://www.cdc.gov/flu/weekly/FluViewInteractive.htm  
Percentage of deaths attributed to pneumonia and influenza | National Center
for Health Statistics mortality surveillance system | The percentage of death
certificates indicating pneumonia and influenza compared with a seasonal
baseline and epidemic threshold value calculated for each week (using a
periodic regression model)  
https://www.cdc.gov/flu/weekly  
Influenza-associated deaths among persons aged <18 yrs | Influenza-Associated
Pediatric Mortality Surveillance System | Any laboratory-confirmed influenza-
associated deaths in children, all of which are reported through this system  
https://www.cdc.gov/flu/weekly/FluViewInteractive.htm  
  
**Abbreviations:** HHS = U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; ILI =
influenza-like illness; WHO = World Health Organization.

Top

#####  ![Return to your place in the
text](//www.cdc.gov/images/arrow_up.gif)**BOX 1**. **Lessons learned from the
2009 H1N1 pandemic response**  

The 2009 H1N1 pandemic demonstrated the unpredictable nature of influenza
viruses and showed that prepandemic planning must be broad and flexible.
Lessons learned during the 2009 H1N1 pandemic response from the United States
and other affected countries follow.

### H1N1 and children

The epidemiology of pandemic influenza might be different from the
epidemiology of seasonal influenza; therefore, different populations might be
disproportionately affected.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * An estimated 43-89 million people in the United States were infected with H1N1pdm09 virus during April 2009-April 2010, and approximately 12,000 people died ( _3_ ).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Severe outcomes of influenza include complications that require hospitalization and can be fatal (e.g., pneumonia or bronchitis). Severe outcomes from H1N1pdm09 virus infection were most common among children, young adults, and specific groups at high risk for complications (e.g., pregnant women) rather than in adults aged ≥65 years, the group most at risk from seasonal influenza ( _4_ - _7_ ). Over the course of the pandemic, an estimated 86,000 children were hospitalized in the United States, which is 2-3 times the number admitted during a typical influenza season ( _5_ ). The number of deaths among children also was more than twice as high as during a regular influenza season.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * On August 28, 2009, the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices recommended that children be placed higher on the priority list for receiving the monovalent H1N1 vaccine, which became available in October 2009 ( _8_ ).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Children at risk for severe outcomes from the H1N1pdm09 virus (and from any influenza virus) included those with underlying health conditions such as asthma, diabetes, obesity, or heart, lung, or neurologic diseases. Approximately 60% of hospitalized children had one or more of these conditions, compared with 80% of hospitalized adults ( _5_ ). Infants born to mothers infected with the H1N1pdm09 virus also might have been at risk, as suggested by U.S. and Canadian studies which found that infants whose mothers received the H1N1 vaccine were less likely to be small for their gestational age or delivered preterm ( _9_ , _10_ ).

### Public health tools to assess pandemic severity and guide NPI selection

The 2007 Pandemic Severity Index had limited usefulness because attack rates
and case-fatality ratios were difficult to measure and imprecise early in the
pandemic.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * The earliest available data on attack rates and case-fatality ratios suggested that the 2009 H1N1 pandemic virus was highly transmissible and caused severe outcomes. However, the cases being reported overestimated severity because they were primarily derived from mortality data.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * By May 1, 2009, which was 5 days after the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) declared a nationwide public health emergency, CDC had received reports of 141 laboratory-confirmed H1N1pdm09 cases in 19 states, with one death in Texas (https://www.cdc.gov/h1n1flu/updates/050109.htm). On the basis of this initial information and continued reports of cases of disease with severe outcomes in Mexico, including deaths among previously healthy young adults ( _11_ ), CDC recommended that communities with laboratory-confirmed cases of H1N1pdm09 virus consider closing child care facilities and schools, depending on the extent and severity of illness ( _12_ ). CDC also recommended other NPIs described in the 2007 strategy, including voluntary home isolation for ill persons (i.e., staying home when ill) and voluntary home quarantine for exposed household members (i.e., staying home when a household member is ill).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Within 12 days of recognition of the emerging pandemic, the national influenza surveillance system generated sufficient data for a refined assessment. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * From April 23, 2009, when H1N1pdm09 virus was detected in California ( _13_ ), through May 5, 2009, CDC received reports of 403 confirmed cases of H1N1pdm09 virus in 38 states. The low rates of hospitalizations and deaths, as well as reported attack rates similar to those for seasonal influenza, suggested that the majority of U.S. cases were less severe than those reported from Mexico.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC issued new nonpharmaceutical intervention (NPI) guidance on May 5, 2009 ( _14_ ), recommending that although ill students and teachers should stay home, schools did not need to close. The guidance acknowledged that public health authorities in certain jurisdictions might still decide to close schools on the basis of local considerations, including public concern, school absenteeism, and staffing shortages.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * During August-December 2009, communities in 46 U.S. states implemented 812 dismissal events (i.e., a single school dismissal or dismissal of all schools in a district), affecting 1,947 schools with approximately 623,616 students and 40,521 teachers ( _15_ ). The 1,947 schools included 639 urban and 1,250 rural schools, representing 0.7% and 3.3% of all urban and rural schools, respectively, in the United States.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * The recognition that the Pandemic Severity Index was of limited use during the earliest stages of an actual pandemic led to the development of a new tool for evaluating the potential effects of an emerging pandemic, the Pandemic Severity Assessment Framework (PSAF) (supplementary Chapter 2 https://stacks.cdc.gov/view/cdc/44313).

### NPIs and influenza transmission

Well-established methods to prevent seasonal influenza transmission, such as
hand hygiene promotion, also were effective in pandemic influenza settings to
prevent the spread of H1N1pdm09 virus in some communities.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * **Hand hygiene.** A randomized trial, conducted over 12 weeks in 60 elementary schools in Cairo, Egypt, during the 2009 H1N1 pandemic, demonstrated a 47% reduction in confirmed cases of influenza after twice-daily hand washing and health hygiene instruction in comparison with a control group that did not receive health hygiene instruction or have access to soap and hand-drying materials ( _16_ ). This study demonstrated the effects of hand washing on laboratory-confirmed influenza in a population of persons that typically have little or no access to soap or hand-drying materials and among whom frequent hand washing is not standard.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * **School closures and dismissals.** Data from the United States, Canada, and Mexico suggest that early implementation of school closures and dismissals reduced the spread of H1N1pdm09 virus. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Two waves of the 2009 H1N1 pandemic occurred in the United States, one in spring 2009 and one in fall 2009. The majority of pandemic cases occurred during the fall wave ( _4_ ), as H1N1pdm09 cases surged in many U.S. communities about 2 weeks after schools reopened after summer break. Opening dates for schools ranged from early August through early September ( _17_ ). A comparison of Texas school districts that closed versus those that stayed open during the pandemic found that school closure was associated with a 45%-72% reduction in acute respiratory illness in households with school-aged children ( _18_ ).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mathematical models suggested that school closures in Alberta, Canada, in May 2009 were associated with reduced transmission among school children by approximately 50%, attenuating the first wave of the 2009 H1N1 epidemic ( _19_ ).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * H1N1pdm09 virus transmission in the greater Mexico City, Mexico, area decreased by an estimated 29%-37% after school closures and implementation of other social distancing measures ( _20_ ).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * After conducting a systematic review of scientific literature published through February 2011, including initial data gathered during the 2009 H1N1 pandemic, the U.S. Community Preventive Services Task Force found insufficient evidence to determine whether the public health benefits of preemptive, coordinated school dismissals balanced their economic and social costs during a mild or moderate influenza pandemic. However, the task force did recommend preemptive, coordinated school dismissals during a severe pandemic ( _21_ ).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * **Social distancing measures.** H1N1pdm09 virus transmission in Mexico decreased significantly after school closures and implementation of other social distancing measures ( _20_ , _22_ ). In the United States, schools in Georgia that shortened school days had less absenteeism due to severe respiratory illness ( _23_ ).

Additional assessments are needed to determine the value of combining
voluntary home quarantine with antiviral chemoprophylaxis.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Although the 2007 strategy suggested that communities consider combining voluntary home quarantine with prophylactic use of antiviral medications, assuming a feasible means of distribution, HHS did not adopt antiviral chemoprophylaxis as its official policy because of concerns about insufficient supplies and drug resistance.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * During the 2009 H1N1 pandemic, antiviral chemoprophylaxis of exposed persons contained the spread of the disease, along with the implementation of social distancing measures, in a few small, well-defined settings, including a summer camp ( _24_ ) and a cruise ship ( _25_ ). Moreover, an observational cohort study of 259 households in the United Kingdom found that administration of antiviral medications to 285 confirmed patients and their 761 close contacts was very effective (92%) in preventing household transmission ( _26_ ).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Although limited, the H1N1pdm09 experience suggests that antiviral chemoprophylaxis might be recommended in the future in some settings as an adjunct to self-quarantine, assuming that additional antiviral medications are on the market, providing more treatment choices and making the emergence of drug resistance less of a concern. However, this recommendation would require much greater quantities of antiviral medications, even if no new products are developed, to ensure sufficient supplies.

### Mobilizing the public

Most members of the public complied with public health recommendations
regarding hand hygiene and social distancing.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * The Harvard Opinion Research Program conducted 13 polls on the response of the U.S. public during the 2009-2010 pandemic, including the response of the general public, pregnant women, new mothers, parents, and businesses. These randomized telephone polls found the following: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * A total of 59% of 1,067 Americans reported washing their hands or using hand sanitizer more frequently during the 2009 H1N1 pandemic ( _27_ ). A total of 25% avoided places where numerous people tend to gather, such as sporting events, malls, or public transportation.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Most (85%) of 514 pregnant women washed or sanitized their hands more frequently to reduce the chance of infection with H1N1pdm09 virus ( _27_ ). A total of 68% reported taking steps to avoid proximity to someone who had influenza-like symptoms, and 31% avoided mass gathering places. Most (91%) of 526 new mothers also washed or sanitized their hands more frequently, and 81% took steps to avoid being near someone who had influenza-like symptoms.

School-related NPIs, including school closures and dismissals, were acceptable
and feasible.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * According to a Harvard Opinion Research Program poll of 523 parents from 39 U.S. states whose child care center or school closed temporarily in response to the 2009 H1N1 pandemic, 90% of parents agreed with the dismissal decision, and 85% believed the dismissal reduced influenza transmission ( _27_ , _28_ ). 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * A total of 75% of parents who responded stated that the dismissal was not a problem, and 3% stated it was a major problem. Approximately 20% of parents reported that an adult in the household missed work because of the dismissal, and 19% had a child who missed a free or reduced-cost lunch. Of these, 2% and <1%, respectively, said missing work and missing lunch were major problems.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Most of the 523 parents polled believed that at least one of the following factors was a major reason the institution had closed: 1) to keep children apart and reduce the chance they would infect each other (81%), 2) because the school decided cleaning the building and surfaces that children touch was important for reducing the spread of the illness (73%), and 3) because the school or child care center could not operate effectively when numerous students were absent (58%).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * A study conducted through an online survey of school principals showed that implementing NPIs in public schools in New York City, New York, was feasible during the 2009 H1N1 pandemic ( _29_ ). Schools successfully implemented respiratory etiquette education, hand-hygiene measures, and environmental measures and isolated ill students. Another online survey found that the majority of public schools in Georgia also were able to successfully implement both personal and community NPIs recommended by CDC ( _23_ ).

Public health practitioners should be prepared to explain that the initial
pandemic guidance might change if a pandemic is more or less severe than
initially assessed.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Within 12 days of recognizing the emerging pandemic on April 23, 2009, CDC updated its initial guidance on NPIs (issued on May 1, 2009) on May 5, 2009, on the basis of more complete and robust data that suggested that the majority of U.S. cases were less severe than those reported from Mexico.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Certain public health departments reported difficulties in communicating the updated guidance on school closures to their communities, especially communities that were planning to implement school closures or had already done so ( _30_ , _31_ ).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * The H1N1pdm09 experience with school closures suggests the need to coordinate and harmonize school closure policies across jurisdictions and to proactively communicate and explain any jurisdictional differences.

Public engagement, community preparedness, and trust in government action are
important for successful NPI implementation during a pandemic.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Practical obstacles to NPI implementation that required community-level solutions included 1) ill persons going to work because they lacked unpaid leave ( _32_ ), 2) lack of clarity about decision-making authority to close schools for public health reasons in some jurisdictions ( _30_ , _33_ ), and 3) lack of access to clean water, soap, or hand sanitizer in some workplaces.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Although 74% of 1,057 businesses that participated in a Harvard Opinion Research Program poll on business preparedness for the H1N1pdm09 virus offered paid sick leave for at least some workers ( _27_ ), fewer offered paid leave that would allow workers to take care of ill family members (35%) or to take time off to care for children if schools or child care centers closed (21%).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * In large cities such as New York City, New York, rapid implementation of local-level response strategies required advanced planning and preparation, as well as high-level political leadership; collaboration between public health and emergency management agencies; coordination with businesses, nongovernmental organizations, and community- and faith-based organizations; and transparent communication with the public ( _34_ ).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * During future pandemics, local health policies and risk communication strategies should take into account community attitudes and acceptance of preventive behaviors related to social distancing, hand hygiene, and vaccination, which might differ across racial and economic groups ( _35_ ).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * According to an online survey of a nationally representative sample conducted by the University of Maryland, clear and consistent communication by public health authorities and government spokespersons, including the use of role models, was important to the public's trust in government actions during the 2009 H1N1 pandemic ( _36_ ). Although the University of Maryland study focused on risk communications related to H1N1 vaccination, this finding also is likely to apply to public attitudes about NPI implementation.

Top

#####  ![Return to your place in the
text](//www.cdc.gov/images/arrow_up.gif)**BOX 2**. **Principles of community
engagement**  

#### Planning

Before initiating a community engagement effort, consider the following:

1\. Be clear about the purpose or goals of the engagement effort and the
relevant populations and communities.

2\. Become knowledgeable about the community's culture, economic conditions,
social networks, political and power structures, norms and values, demographic
trends, history, and experience with efforts by outside groups to engage it in
various programs. Learn about the community's perceptions of those initiating
the engagement activities.

#### Initiation

For engagement to occur, the following steps are necessary:

3\. Go to the community, establish relationships, build trust, work with the
formal and informal leaders, and seek commitment from community organizations
and leaders to create processes for mobilizing the community.

4\. Remember and accept that collective self-determination is the
responsibility and right of all people in a community. No external entity
should assume the ability to bestow on a community the power to act in its own
self-interest.

#### Implementation

For engagement to succeed, consider the following:

5\. Partnering with the community is necessary to create change and improve
health.

6\. All aspects of community engagement must recognize and respect the
diversity of the community. Awareness of the various cultures of a community
and other factors affecting diversity must be paramount in planning,
designing, and implementing approaches to engaging a community.

7\. Community engagement can only be sustained by identifying and mobilizing
community assets and strengths and by developing the community's capacity and
resources to make decisions and take action.

8\. Organizations that would like to involve a community and those seeking to
effect change must be prepared to release control of actions or interventions
to the community and be flexible enough to meet changing needs.

9\. Community collaboration requires long-term commitment by the engaging
organizations and its partners.

**Source:** Adapted from: Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry.
Principles of community engagement. Atlanta, GA: CDC, Agency for Toxic
Substances and Disease Registry.
https://www.atsdr.cdc.gov/communityengagement/pdf/PCE_Report_Chapter_2_SHEF.pdfpdf
icon

Top

#####  ![Return to your place in the
text](//www.cdc.gov/images/arrow_up.gif)**FIGURE 2**. **Preparedness and
response framework for novel influenza A virus pandemics, with CDC intervals
and World Health Organization phases**  

![This figure shows the six CDC intervals and World Health Organization
\(WHO\) phases that describe influenza pandemic progression, combined with
application of the Influenza Risk Assessment Tool \(IRAT\) and the Pandemic
Severity Assessment Framework \(PSAF\). The CDC intervals include 1\)
investigation, 2\) recognition, 3\) initiation, 4\) acceleration, 5\)
deceleration, and 6\) preparation. The prepandemic intervals include
investigation and recognition, and the pandemic intervals include initiation,
acceleration, and deceleration. IRAT is used during the investigation and
recognition intervals, and PSAF is used during the initiation, acceleration,
and deceleration intervals. The WHO phases include preparedness, response, and
recovery. The interpandemic phase corresponds with initiation, the alert and
pandemic phases correspond with response, and the transition phase corresponds
with recovery.](/mmwr/volumes/66/rr/figures/r6601a1f2.gif)

**Source:** Adapted from: Holloway R, Rasmussen SA, Zaza S, Cox NJ, Jernigan
DB; Influenza Pandemic Framework Workgroup. Updated preparedness and response
framework for influenza pandemics. MMWR Recomm Rep 2014;63(No. RR-6).

Top

#####  ![Return to your place in the
text](//www.cdc.gov/images/arrow_up.gif)**TABLE 4**. **CDC novel influenza
virus pandemic intervals**  

Intervals | Indicators  
---|---  
**Investigation:** Investigation of novel influenza cases | This interval is
indicated by the identification of an animal case of influenza A subtype with
potential implications for human health or identification of a human case of
novel influenza A anywhere in the world.  
**Recognition:** Recognition of potential for ongoing transmission | This
interval is indicated by an increasing number of cases or clusters of novel
influenza A in humans and by virus characteristics indicating potential for
ongoing human-to-human transmission anywhere in the world.  
**Initiation:** Initiation of the pandemic wave | This interval is indicated
by confirmation of cases of novel influenza A in humans and demonstration of
efficient and sustained human-to-human transmission anywhere in the world.  
**Acceleration:** Acceleration of the pandemic wave | This interval is
indicated by an increasing rate of novel influenza A cases identified
nationally, indicating establishment in the country.  
**Deceleration:** Deceleration of the pandemic wave | This interval is
indicated by decreasing rates of novel influenza A infection.  
**Preparation:** Preparation for a future pandemic wave | This interval is
indicated by sporadic cases of novel influenza A infection and surveillance
rates returning to baseline.  
  
**Source:** Holloway R, Rasmussen SA, Zaza S, Cox NJ, Jernigan DB; Influenza
Pandemic Framework Workgroup. Updated preparedness and response framework for
influenza pandemics. MMWR Recomm Rep 2014;63(No. RR-6).

Top

#####  ![Return to your place in the
text](//www.cdc.gov/images/arrow_up.gif)**TABLE 5**. **Initial assessment:
scaled measures of influenza virus transmissibility and clinical severity**  

Measures of transmissibility and clinical severity | Scale  
---|---  
Low to moderate | Moderate to high  
**Transmissibility**  
Secondary attack rate, household | ≤20% | >20%  
Attack rate, school or university | ≤30% | >30%  
Attack rate, workplace or community | ≤20% | >20%  
R0: basic reproductive number | 1-1.7 | ≥1.8  
Underlying population immunity | Some underlying population immunity | Little
to no underlying population immunity  
Emergency department or other outpatient visits for influenza-like illness |
<10% | ≥10%  
Virologic characterization | Genetic markers for transmissibility absent |
Genetic markers for transmissibility present  
Animal models, transmission studies | Less efficient or similar to seasonal
influenza | More efficient than seasonal influenza  
**Clinical severity**  
Upper bound of case-fatality ratio | <1% | ≥1%  
Upper bound of case-hospitalization ratio | <10% | ≥10%  
Deaths-hospitalizations ratio | <10% | ≥10%  
Virologic characterization | Genetic markers for virulence absent | Genetic
markers for virulence present  
Animal models, evaluation of morbidity and mortality | Less virulent or
similar to seasonal influenza | More virulent than seasonal influenza  
  
**Source:** Reed C, Biggerstaff M, Finelli L, et al. Novel framework for
assessing epidemiologic effects of influenza epidemics and pandemics. Emerg
Infect Dis 2013;19:85-91.

Top

#####  ![Return to your place in the
text](//www.cdc.gov/images/arrow_up.gif)**FIGURE 3**. **Pandemic Severity
Assessment Framework for the initial assessment of the potential impact of an
influenza pandemic**  

![This figure shows a large square divided into four smaller quadrants of A,
B, C, and D. Pandemic Severity Assessment Framework scores of viral
transmissibility and clinical severity are used to place an influenza pandemic
within one of four assessment quadrants. Quadrant A: low to moderate
transmissibility and clinical severity; quadrant B: moderate to high
transmissibility and low to moderate clinical severity; quadrant C: low to
moderate transmissibility and moderate to high clinical severity; quadrant D:
moderate to high transmissibility and moderate to high clinical
severity.](/mmwr/volumes/66/rr/figures/r6601a1f3.gif)

**Source:** Reed C, Biggerstaff M, Finelli L, et al. Novel framework for
assessing epidemiologic effects of influenza epidemics and pandemics. Emerg
Infect Dis 2013;19:85-91.

Top

#####  ![Return to your place in the
text](//www.cdc.gov/images/arrow_up.gif)**FIGURE 4**. **Pandemic Severity
Assessment Framework using surveillance indicators for the refined assessment*
of an influenza pandemic on the basis of past pandemics and influenza
seasons**  

![This figure is a collection of graphed curved lines, with the y axis showing
increasing transmissibility and the x axis showing increasing clinical
severity of a pandemic. The enclosed areas between each curved lines gradually
increase from light to dark as the estimated number of deaths increases.
](/mmwr/volumes/66/rr/figures/r6601a1f4.gif)

**Source:** Adapted from: Reed C, Biggerstaff M, Finelli L, et al. Novel
framework for assessing epidemiologic effects of influenza epidemics and
pandemics. Emerg Infect Dis 2013;19:85-91.

* Colors transition from light to dark as the estimated number of deaths increases. Transmissibility: measured on a scale of 1-5 and includes school, workplace, and community attack rates, secondary household attack rates, school and/or workplace absenteeism rates, and rates of emergency department and outpatient visits for influenza-like illness. Clinical severity: measured on a scale of 1-7 and includes case-fatality ratios, case-hospitalization ratios, and deaths-hospitalizations ratios.

Top

#####  ![Return to your place in the
text](//www.cdc.gov/images/arrow_up.gif)**TABLE 6**. **Refined assessment:
scaled measures of influenza virus transmissibility and clinical severity**  

Measures of transmissibility and clinical severity | Scale  
---|---  
1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7  
**Transmissibility (scale of 1 -5)**  
Symptomatic attack rate, community | ≤10% | 11%-15% | 16%-20% | 21%-24% | ≥25%
| -- | --  
Symptomatic attack rate, school | ≤20% | 21%-25% | 26%-30% | 31%-35% | ≥36% |
-- | --  
Symptomatic attack rate, workplace | ≤10% | 11%-15% | 16%-20% | 21%-24% | ≥25%
| -- | --  
Household secondary attack rate, symptomatic | ≤5% | 6%-10% | 11%-15% |
16%-20% | ≥21% | -- | --  
R0: basic reproductive number | ≤1.1 | 1.2-1.3 | 1.4-1.5 | 1.6-1.7 | ≥1.8 | --
| --  
Peak percentage of outpatient visits for influenza-like illness | 1%-3% |
4%-6% | 7%-9% | 10%-12% | ≥13% | -- | --  
**Clinical severity (scale of 1 -7)**  
Case-fatality ratio | <0.02% | 0.02%-0.05% | 0.05%-0.1% | 0.1%-0.25% |
0.25%-0.5% | 0.5%-1% | >1%  
Case-hospitalization ratio | <0.5% | 0.5%-0.8% | 0.8%-1.5% | 1.5%-3% | 3%-5% |
5%-7% | >7%  
Deaths-hospitalizations ratio | ≤3% | 4%-6% | 7%-9% | 10%-12% | 13%-15% |
16%-18% | >18%  
  
**Source:** Reed C, Biggerstaff M, Finelli L, et al. Novel framework for
assessing epidemiologic effects of influenza epidemics and pandemics. Emerg
Infect Dis 2013;19:85-91.

Top

#####  ![Return to your place in the
text](//www.cdc.gov/images/arrow_up.gif)**TABLE 7**. **Process for developing
the community mitigation guidelines for pandemic influenza, October 2011
-October 2016**  

Topic | Comment  
---|---  
Goal of the guidelines | The goal of the 2017 guidelines is to update the 2007
guidance and provide updated recommendations on the use of NPIs during an
influenza pandemic in the United States, based on lessons learned from the
2009 H1N1 pandemic and on an expanded evidence base for NPIs that includes
studies conducted since 2007.  
Users of the guidelines | State, tribal, local, and territorial public health
authorities  
Population and settings | The updated 2017 planning guidelines apply but are
not limited to activities conducted by public health authorities who are
responsible for facilitating and implementing emergency preparedness,
planning, and response efforts in community settings (e.g., schools,
workplaces, and mass gatherings).  
Developer of the guidelines | The CDC Community Mitigation Guidelines Work
Group convened in October 2012. The group is composed of staff from CDC's
Office of Infectious Diseases, Influenza Coordination Unit, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases, and National Center for
Immunization and Respiratory Diseases. The work group members are subject-
matter experts in seasonal and pandemic influenza, community mitigation
measures, NPIs, epidemiology, health policy, and technical guidelines
development. The work group provided technical oversight, coordinated the
guidelines development process, and contributed to the writing of the updated
guidelines.  
Development of the guidelines | The updated planning guidelines are based on a
NPI report developed beginning in October 2011 and finalized in August 2013.
The NPI report was developed for internal CDC discussions and served as the
foundation for updating the NPI recommendations from the 2007 guidance.  
Evidence collection | The NPI recommendations in the 2017 guidelines are based
on studies published in English-language, peer-reviewed journals through
September 2016. The evidence base for NPIs includes systematic literature
reviews, metaanalyses, and evidence from epidemiologic studies, laboratory
experiments, and modeling simulations.  
Method for data synthesis | Staff members from CDC's Community Interventions
for Infection Control Unit worked in pairs to ensure quality control. They
reviewed, abstracted, synthesized, and entered approximately 191 articles into
spreadsheets to help establish the overall NPI body of literature, including
the evidence base for NPIs.  
Development of the recommendations | The approach used by the _Guide to
Community Preventive Services_ ( _The Community Guide_ ) was adapted and
applied to develop the NPI recommendations in the updated planning guidelines.  
Planning guides | To help operationalize the updated guidelines, six community
mitigation prepandemic planning guides have been developed for key populations
and decision-makers in community settings. During September-October 2015,
before submission for CDC clearance, the National Public Health Information
Coalition facilitated discussion of the planning guides by representatives of
the public health, education, and business communities. The guides are part of
a set of practical, user-friendly, and plain-language companion implementation
materials.  
Updating the guidelines | The 2017 guidelines will be updated when new
information warrants their modification.  
  
**Abbreviation:** NPI = nonpharmaceutical intervention.

Top

#####  ![Return to your place in the
text](//www.cdc.gov/images/arrow_up.gif)**TABLE 8**. **Number of selected
peer-reviewed articles on nonpharmaceutical interventions used to develop
community mitigation guidelines for pandemic influenza, by NPI type and
measure and by article topic**  

NPI type and measure | Number and type of articles reviewed*  
---|---  
Background | Evidence based† | Implementation issues  
**Personal NPIs**  
Personal protective measures for everyday use |  |  |  
   Voluntary home isolation§ | 2 | 7 | 1  
   Respiratory etiquette | 2 | 0 | 3  
   Hand hygiene | 3 | 15 | 11  
Personal protective measures reserved for pandemics |  |  |  
   Voluntary home quarantine§ | 1 | 0 | 3  
   Use of face masks in community settings | 0 | 18 | 4  
**Community NPIs**  
School closures and dismissals | 24 | 25 | 26  
Social distancing measures for schools, workplaces, and mass gatherings | 10 |
12 | 11  
**Environmental NPIs**  
Environmental surface cleaning measures | 1 | 12 | 0  
  
**Abbreviation:** NPI = nonpharmaceutical intervention.  
*Articles that are cited in more than one section in the supplementary document (supplementary Chapter 3 https://stacks.cdc.gov/view/cdc/44313) are not counted twice in this table.  
†Of the 89 evidence-based articles, 27 articles assessed the effectiveness of
NPIs when used in combination with one another. The evidence-based articles
include 14 systematic literature reviews and metaanalyses composed of
approximately 475 individual studies that were reviewed and analyzed by their
respective authors. These studies contribute to the overall body of literature
on NPIs and help support the evidence base on the effectiveness of NPIs. They
are provided (supplementary Appendix 6 https://stacks.cdc.gov/view/cdc/44314)
but are not accounted for in this table because CDC staff members did not re-
review them.  
§Voluntary home isolation and voluntary home quarantine share the same set of
evidence-based articles.

Top

#####  ![Return to your place in the
text](//www.cdc.gov/images/arrow_up.gif)**FIGURE 5**. **Phased addition of
nonpharmaceutical interventions to prevent the spread of pandemic influenza in
communities**  

![This figure is a flow chart showing the phased addition of nonpharmaceutical
interventions \(NPIs\). If the influenza virus is seasonal or pandemic,
regardless of the level or severity, the following NPIs are recommended at all
times: 1. Personal A. Voluntary home isolation \(staying home when ill\) B.
Respiratory etiquette \(covering coughs and sneezes\) C. Hand hygiene
\(washing hands with soap and water or use of alcohol-based hand sanitizer
when soap and water are not available\)  2. Environmental A. Routine surface
cleaning of frequently touched surfaces and objects \(e.g., tables, door
knobs, toys, desks, and computer keyboards\) If the influenza virus is a novel
virus, the following NPIs might be added to those just mentioned \(and are
applicable to all levels of transmissibility and clinical severity\):  1.
Personal A. Voluntary home quarantine \(household members of sick persons stay
home for up to 3 days and then remain home if they become ill\) B. Face mask
use by ill persons for source control 2. Community A.  school closures and
dismissals B. Mass gathering modifications/postponements/cancellations C.
Other social distancing measures \(e.g., offering telecommuting in workplaces
or seating students further apart in classrooms\)  The expected outcomes of
all the mentioned NPIs are 1\) reduced spread of infectious disease, 2\)
reduced load for health care facilities, and 3\) reduced morbidity and
mortality.](/mmwr/volumes/66/rr/figures/r6601a1f5.gif)

**Abbreviation:** NPI = nonpharmaceutical intervention.

Top

#####  ![Return to your place in the
text](//www.cdc.gov/images/arrow_up.gif)**TABLE 9**. **Prepandemic influenza
planning scenarios to guide implementation of nonpharmaceutical interventions,
by severity of pandemic and the Pandemic Severity Assessment Framework
quadrant**  

Severity of pandemic and PSAF quadrant | Implications of clinical severity and
transmissibility in this scenario* | Possible no. of hospitalizations and
deaths if unmitigated,† by age group | Historical experience  
---|---|---|---  
Age groups (yrs) | No. of hospitalizations | No. of deaths  
Low to moderate severity (mild to moderate pandemic) |

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Clinical severity and transmissibility similar to the range seen during annual influenza seasons.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Estimated overall attack and case-fatality rates: 18% and 0.03%, respectively. Rates of severe outcomes are greater among younger persons than during influenza seasons.
| **All ages** | **340,000** | **17,000** |

**2009 pandemic**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * First detected in North America, the 2009 H1N1 pandemic quickly spread to all continents. In the United States, persons at high risk for severe complications included pregnant women and those with neuromuscular disease, lung disease, morbid obesity, and other chronic conditions.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * An estimated 43-89 million people in the United States became ill with H1N1 from April 2009 through April 2010, and approximately 12,000 people died.§ A total of 87% of deaths were among persons aged ≤65 yrs, with a mean age of 43 yrs.¶ During typical influenza seasons, 80%-90% of deaths are among persons aged ≥65 yrs, and the mean age of influenza-related deaths is approximately 76 yrs.**  
  
0-18 | 50,000 | 1,000  
PSAF quadrant: A | 18-64 | 135,000 | 6,000  
≥65 | 155,000 | 10,000  
Moderate to high severity (moderate to severe pandemic) |

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Clinical severity similar to the range seen during annual influenza seasons. Transmissibility greater than during influenza seasons.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Estimated overall attack and case-fatality rates: 22% and 0.05%, respectively. Rates of severe outcomes are greater than during influenza seasons, especially among younger persons.
| **All ages** | **550,000** | **35,000** |  **1968 pandemic**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * First detected in Hong Kong in July 1968, a new influenza virus (H3N2) spread worldwide.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * The first cases in the United States were detected in September 1968. The 1968 influenza pandemic resulted in approximately 30,000 deaths in the United States, with approximately half among those aged ≥65 yrs.††,§§  
0-18 | 80,000 | 2,500  
PSAF quadrant: B | 18-64 | 220,000 | 12,000  
≥65 | 250,000 | 20,000  
High severity (severe pandemic) |

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Clinical severity similar to the range seen during annual influenza seasons. Transmissibility greater than during influenza seasons.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Estimated overall attack and case-fatality rates: 28% and 0.1%, respectively. Rates of severe outcomes are greater than during influenza seasons.
| **All ages** | **1,100,000** | **86,000** |  **1957 pandemic**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * A new influenza virus, H2N2 (the Asian strain), emerged in China in February 1957 and spread to approximately 20 countries, including the United States, by June 1957.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * An estimated 25% of the U.S. population became ill with the new pandemic virus strain. U.S. infection rates were highest among school-aged children and adults aged ≤40 yrs, with most (64%) of the approximately 70,000 deaths occurring among older adults.††,§§,¶¶  
0-18 | 150,000 | 6,000  
PSAF quadrant: B | 18-64 | 450,000 | 30,000  
≥65 | 500,000 | 50,000  
Very high severity (very severe to extreme pandemic) |

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Both clinical severity and transmissibility are greater than during annual influenza seasons.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Estimated overall attack and case-fatality rates: 30% and 1.5%, respectively. Rates of severe outcomes are greater than during influenza seasons, especially among young adults.
| **All ages** | **7,500,000** | **1,400,000** |  **1918 pandemic**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * The 1918 pandemic resulted in death for 2%-3% of those infected, a case-fatality rate that was much greater than the rate during an average influenza season. The pandemic virus was easily transmitted.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Approximately one fourth of the U.S. population became ill, and approximately 500,000 died; 99% of deaths occurred in persons aged ≤65 yrs.††,***  
0-18 | 1,000,000 | 100,000  
PSAF quadrant: D | 18-64 | 3,000,000 | 500,000  
≥65 | 3,400,000 | 800,000  
  
**Abbreviation:** PSAF = Pandemic Severity Assessment Framework.  
*Based on PSAF ( **Source:** Reed C, Biggerstaff M, Finelli L, et al. Novel framework for assessing epidemiologic effects of influenza epidemics and pandemics. Emerg Infect Dis 2013;19:85-91). Age-specific point estimates of hospitalizations and deaths are based on U.S. Census 2010 population data.  
†Point estimates for hospitalizations and deaths, by age group, are based on
the estimated overall attack and case-fatality rates provided in the second
column (clinical severity and transmissibility). Age-specific point estimates
of hospitalizations and deaths are based on U.S. Census 2010 population data.  
§ **Source:** Shrestha SS, Swerdlow DL, Borse RH, et al. Estimating the burden
of 2009 pandemic influenza A (H1N1) in the United States (April 2009-April
2010). Clin Infect Dis 2011;52(Suppl 1):S75-S82.  
¶ **Source:** Fowlkes AL, Arguin P, Biggerstaff MS, et al. Epidemiology of
2009 pandemic influenza A (H1N1) deaths in the United States, April-July 2009.
Clin Infect Dis 2011;52(Suppl 1):S60-S68.  
** **Source:** Viboud C, Miller M, Olson DR, Osterholm M, Simonsen L.
Preliminary estimates of mortality and years of life lost associated with the
2009 A/H1N1 pandemic in the U.S. and comparison with past influenza seasons.
PLoS Currents 2010;2:RRN1153.  
†† **Source:** Simonsen L, Clarke MJ, Schonberger LB, Arden NH, Cox NJ, Fukuda
K. Pandemic versus epidemic influenza mortality: a pattern of changing age
distribution. J Infect Dis 1998;178:53-60.  
§§ **Source:** Cox NJ, Subbarao K. Global epidemiology of influenza: past and
present. Annu Rev Med 2000;51:407-21.  
¶¶ **Source:** Henderson DA, Courtney B, Inglesby TV, Toner E, Nuzzo JB.
Public health and medical responses to the 1957-58 influenza pandemic.
Biosecur Bioterror 2009;7:265-73.  
*** **Source:** Collins SD. Age and sex incidence of influenza and pneumonia
morbidity and mortality in the epidemic of 1928-29 with comparative data for
the epidemic of 1918-19\. Public Health Rep 1931;46:1909-37.

Top

#####  ![Return to your place in the
text](//www.cdc.gov/images/arrow_up.gif)**TABLE 10**. **Recommended
nonpharmaceutical interventions for influenza pandemics, by setting and
pandemic severity***  

Setting | Pandemic severity  
---|---  
Low to moderate severity  
(mild to moderate pandemic) | High severity  
(severe pandemic) | Very high severity  
(very severe to extreme pandemic†)  
All | CDC recommends voluntary home isolation of ill persons, respiratory
etiquette, hand hygiene, and routine cleaning of frequently touched surfaces
and objects. **§** | CDC recommends voluntary home isolation of ill persons,
respiratory etiquette, hand hygiene, and routine cleaning of frequently
touched surfaces and objects. | CDC recommends voluntary home isolation of ill
persons, respiratory etiquette, hand hygiene, and routine cleaning of
frequently touched surfaces and objects.  
Residences | CDC generally does not recommend voluntary home quarantine of
exposed household members. | CDC might recommend voluntary home quarantine of
exposed household members in areas where novel influenza virus circulates. |
CDC might recommend voluntary home quarantine of exposed household members in
areas where novel influenza virus circulates.  
CDC generally does not recommend use of face masks by ill persons. | CDC might
recommend use of face masks by ill persons when crowded community settings
cannot be avoided. | CDC might recommend use of face masks by ill persons when
crowded community settings cannot be avoided.  
Child care facilities, schools for grades K-12, and colleges and universities
| CDC might recommend selective school dismissals in facilities serving
children at high risk for severe influenza complications. | CDC might
recommend temporary preemptive, coordinated dismissals of child care
facilities and schools.¶ | CDC might recommend temporary preemptive,
coordinated dismissals of child care facilities and schools.  
If schools remain open, CDC might recommend social distancing measures.** | If
schools remain open, CDC might recommend social distancing measures.  
Workplaces | CDC generally does not recommend social distancing measures. |
CDC might recommend social distancing measures.†† | CDC might recommend social
distancing measures.  
Mass gatherings§§ | CDC generally does not recommend modifications,
postponements, or cancellations. | CDC might recommend modifications,
postponements, or cancellations. | CDC might recommend modifications,
postponements, or cancellations.  
  
**Abbreviation:** NPI = nonpharmaceutical intervention.  
*Personal, community, and environmental NPIs should be 1) initiated early in a pandemic before local epidemics begin to grow exponentially, 2) targeted toward the nexus of transmission (in affected areas where the novel virus circulates), and 3) layered together to reduce community transmission to the greatest extent possible.  
†During a very severe or extreme pandemic (similar to the 1918 pandemic), CDC
is likely to take an aggressive stance and recommend certain additional NPIs.  
**§** Recommended NPIs are the same for seasonal influenza.  
¶Preemptive, coordinated dismissals might be implemented early during a
pandemic to decrease the spread of influenza before many students and staff
members become ill. Selective dismissals might be implemented by schools that
serve students at high risk for complications from infection with influenza.
Reactive dismissals might be implemented when many students and staff members
are ill and not attending school or when many students and staff members are
arriving at school ill and being sent home. Selective and reactive dismissals
do not help slow disease transmission in the community.  
**Social distancing measures that reduce face-to-face contact in schools might
include dividing classes into smaller groups of students who are spaced
further apart from each other within the classroom.  
††Social distancing measures that reduce face-to-face contact in workplaces
might include offering telework and remote meeting options. Flexible sick
leave policies should be implemented to encourage workers to stay home if
needed.  
§§In all scenarios, mass gathering attendance during local outbreaks should be
discouraged for persons at high risk for severe influenza-related
complications.

Top

#####  ![Return to your place in the
text](//www.cdc.gov/images/arrow_up.gif)**FIGURE 6**. **U.S. Department of
Health and Human Services pandemic planning scenarios based on the Pandemic
Severity Assessment Framework**  

![This figure combines the four quadrants of the third figure in this report
and superimposes them over the curved lines of the fourth. The x axis shows
increasing clinical severity, and the y axis shows increasing
transmissibility. The first quadrant \(bottom left\) includes a portion of low
severity pandemic, a smaller portion of moderate severity, and a very small
portion of high severity. It also includes the 2011â€“12 influenza season,
three fourths of the 2014â€“2015 influenza season, and less than half of the
2009 pandemic. The second quadrant \(top left\) includes a very small portion
of low severity, a large portion of moderate severity, a slightly smaller
portion of high severity, and a very small portion of very high severity. It
also includes more than half of the 2009 influenza season, the 1968 pandemic,
and almost all of the 1957 pandemic. The third quadrant \(bottom right\) has a
very small portion of moderate severity, a slightly larger portion of high
severity, and a very large portion of very high severity. It also includes one
fourth of the 2014â€“15 influenza season. The last quadrant \(top right\) is
almost completely very high severity but includes a very small portion of high
severity. It also includes less than one fourth of the 1957 pandemic and all
of the 1918 pandemic.](/mmwr/volumes/66/rr/figures/r6601a1f6.gif)

**Source:** Adapted from: Reed C, Biggerstaff M, Finelli L, et al. Novel
framework for assessing epidemiologic effects of influenza epidemics and
pandemics. Emerg Infect Dis 2013;19:85-91.

Top

  

 **Suggested citation for this article:** Qualls N, Levitt A, Kanade N, et al.
Community Mitigation Guidelines to Prevent Pandemic Influenza -- United
States, 2017. MMWR Recomm Rep 2017;66(No. RR-1):1-34\. DOI:
http://dx.doi.org/10.15585/mmwr.rr6601a1external icon.

_MMWR_ and _Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report_ are service marks of the
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.  
Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does
not imply endorsement by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.  
References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to
_MMWR_ readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these
organizations or their programs by CDC or the U.S. Department of Health and
Human Services. CDC is not responsible for the content of pages found at these
sites. URL addresses listed in _MMWR_ were current as of the date of
publication.

All HTML versions of _MMWR_ articles are generated from final proofs through
an automated process. This conversion might result in character translation or
format errors in the HTML version. Users are referred to the electronic PDF
version (https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr) and/or the original _MMWR_ paper copy for
printable versions of official text, figures, and tables.

Questions or messages regarding errors in formatting should be addressed to
mmwrq@cdc.gov.

View Page In:pdf icon

Page last reviewed: June 16, 2017

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home _MMWR_

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Early Release
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Publicationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Weekly Reportplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Past Volumes (1982-2019)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Recommendations and Reportsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Past Volumes (1990-2019)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Surveillance Summariesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Past Volumes (1983-2019)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Supplementsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Past Volumes (1985-2015)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Notifiable Infectious Diseases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Notifiable Noninfectious Conditions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * For Authors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * About Â _MMWR_ plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Staff
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Editorial Board
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Subscriptionsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * _MMWR_ Paper Subscription
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Free Continuing Education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Additional Â _MMWR_ Â Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Visual Abstracts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Contact Us

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 3:13 PM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[GATS]: Global Adult Tobacco Survey
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[17 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[19 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 5:00 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 1:27 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM

