Link: https://medlineplus.gov/metabolicsyndrome.html    
                                Description: Metabolic syndrome (also called insulin resistance syndrome) is a group of conditions that put you at risk for heart disease and diabetes. Read more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Metabolic Syndrome

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/metabolicsyndrome.html

#  Metabolic Syndrome

Also called: Insulin resistance syndrome, Metabolic syndrome X

On this page

### Basics

  * Summary
  * Start Here
  * Symptoms

### Learn More

  * Related Issues

### See, Play and Learn

  * No links available

### Research

  * Statistics and Research
  * Clinical Trials
  * Journal Articles

### Resources

  * Find an Expert

### For You

  * Children
  * Patient Handouts

## Summary

### What is metabolic syndrome?

Metabolic syndrome is the name for a group of risk factors for heart disease,
diabetes, and other health problems. You can have just one risk factor, but
people often have several of them together. When you have at least three of
them, it is called metabolic syndrome. These risk factors include

  * A large waistline, also called abdominal obesity or "having an apple shape." Too much fat around the stomach is a greater risk factor for heart disease than too much fat in other parts of the body.
  * Having a high triglyceride level. Triglycerides are a type of fat found in the blood.
  * Having a low HDL cholesterol level. HDL is sometimes called the "good" cholesterol because it helps remove cholesterol from your arteries.
  * Having high blood pressure. If your blood pressure stays high over time, it can damage your heart and lead to other health problems.
  * Having a high fasting blood sugar. Mildly high blood sugar may be an early sign of diabetes.

The more factors you have, the higher your risk for heart disease, diabetes,
and stroke is.

### What causes metabolic syndrome?

Metabolic syndrome has several causes that act together:

  * Overweight and obesity
  * An inactive lifestyle
  * Insulin resistance, a condition in which the body can't use insulin properly. Insulin is a hormone that helps move blood sugar into your cells to give them energy. Insulin resistance can lead to high blood sugar levels.
  * Age - your risk goes up as get older
  * Genetics - ethnicity and family history

People who have metabolic syndrome often also have excessive blood clotting
and inflammation throughout the body. Researchers don't know whether these
conditions cause metabolic syndrome or worsen it.

### Who is at risk for metabolic syndrome?

The most important risk factors for metabolic syndrome are

  * Abdominal obesity (a large waistline)
  * An inactive lifestyle
  * Insulin resistance

There are certain groups of people who have an increased risk of metabolic
syndrome:

  * Some racial and ethnic groups. Mexican Americans have the highest rate of metabolic syndrome, followed by whites and blacks.
  * People who have diabetes
  * People who have a sibling or parent who has diabetes
  * Women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS)
  * People who take medicines that cause weight gain or changes in blood pressure, blood cholesterol, and blood sugar levels

### What are the symptoms of metabolic syndrome?

Most of the metabolic risk factors have no obvious signs or symptoms, except
for a large waistline.

### How is metabolic syndrome diagnosed?

Your health care provider will diagnose metabolic syndrome based on the
results of a physical exam and blood tests. You must have at least three of
the risk factors to be diagnosed with metabolic syndrome:

  * **A large waistline** , which means a waist measurement of 
    * 35 inches or more for women
    * 40 inches or more for men
  * **A high triglyceride level** , which is 150 mg/dL or higher
  * **A low HDL cholesterol level** , which is 
    * Less than 50 mg/dL for women
    * Less than 40 mg/dL for men
  * **High blood pressure** , which is a reading of 130/85 mmHg or higher.
  * **A high fasting blood sugar** , which is 100 mg/dL or higher

### What are the treatments for metabolic syndrome?

The most important treatment for metabolic syndrome is a heart-healthy
lifestyle, which includes

  * A heart-healthy eating plan, which limits the amount of saturated and trans fats that you eat. It encourages you to choose a variety of nutritious foods, including fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and lean meats.
  * Aiming for a healthy weight
  * Managing stress
  * Getting regular physical activity
  * Quitting smoking (or not starting if you don't already smoke)

If making lifestyle changes is not enough, you may need to take medicines. For
example, you may need medicines to lower cholesterol or blood pressure.

### Can metabolic syndrome be prevented?

The best way to prevent metabolic syndrome is through the heart-healthy
lifestyle changes.

NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute

## Start Here

  * Metabolic Syndrome (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
  * Metabolic Syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)

## Symptoms

  * Symptoms and Diagnosis of Metabolic Syndrome (American Heart Association)

## Related Issues

  * Diabetes, Heart Disease, and Stroke ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) Also in Spanish
  * Insulin Resistance and Prediabetes ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) Also in Spanish
  * Obesity (Hormone Health Network) Also in Spanish

## Statistics and Research

  * Metabolic Syndrome Prevalence by Race/Ethnicity and Sex in the United States, National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey, 1988-2012 (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Clinical Trials

  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Insulin Resistance ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Metabolic Syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

  * Article: Sex-specific association of hyperuricemia with cardiometabolic abnormalities in a military cohort:...
  * Article: Prevalence of and associations between metabolic syndrome and the constitutions defined...
  * Article: Ancestry specific associations of FTO gene variant and metabolic syndrome: A...
  * Metabolic Syndrome -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

  * American Diabetes Association
  * American Heart Association
  * National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Children

  * Metabolic Syndrome (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

  * Metabolic syndrome (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Metabolic Syndrome](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MetabolicSyndrome.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

  * Metabolic syndrome

## Related Health Topics

  * Angina
  * Cholesterol
  * Diabetes
  * Heart Diseases
  * Metabolic Disorders
  * Obesity
  * Prediabetes

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Metabolic Syndrome is the
National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 17 January 2020 Topic last reviewed: 17 April 2018

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

