Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000799.htm    
                                Description: A concussion may occur when the head hits an object, or a moving object strikes the head. A concussion is a minor or less severe type of brain injury, which may also be called a traumatic brain injury.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Concussion

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000799.htm

# Concussion

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A concussion may occur when the head hits an object, or a moving object
strikes the head. A concussion is a minor or less severe type of brain injury,
which may also be called a traumatic brain injury.

A concussion can affect how the brain works for a while. It may lead to
headaches, changes in alertness, or loss of consciousness.

![Concussion](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/17143.jpg)

## Causes

A concussion can result from a fall, sports activities, or car accidents. A
big movement of the brain (called jarring) in any direction can cause a person
to lose alertness (become unconscious). How long the person stays unconscious
may be a sign of how bad the concussion is.

Concussions do not always lead to loss of consciousness. Most people never
pass out. They may describe seeing all white, all black, or stars. A person
can also have a concussion and not realize it.

![Concussion](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200049t.gif)Watch this
video about:Concussion

## Symptoms

Symptoms of a milder concussion can include:

    * Acting somewhat confused, feeling unable to concentrate, or not thinking clearly
    * Being drowsy, hard to wake up, or similar changes
    * Headache
    * Loss of consciousness for a fairly short period of time
    * Memory loss (amnesia) of events before the injury or right after
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Seeing flashing lights
    * Feeling like you have "lost time"
    * Sleep abnormalities

The following are emergency symptoms of a more severe head injury or
concussion. Seek medical care right away if there are:

    * Changes in alertness and consciousness
    * Confusion that does not go away
    * Seizures
    * Muscle weakness on one or both sides
    * Pupils of the eyes that are not equal in size
    * Unusual eye movements
    * Repeated vomiting
    * Walking or balance problems
    * Unconsciousness for a longer period of time or that continues (coma) 

Head injuries that cause a concussion often occur with injury to the neck and
spine. Take special care when moving people who have had a head injury.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. The person's nervous
system will be checked. There may be changes in the person's pupil size,
thinking ability, coordination, and reflexes.

Tests that may be done include:

    * EEG (brain wave test) may be needed if seizures continue
    * Head CT scan
    * MRI of the brain

## Treatment

For a mild head injury, no treatment may be needed. But be aware that the
symptoms of a head injury can show up later.

Your providers will explain what to expect, how to manage any headaches, how
to treat your other symptoms, when to return to sports, school, work, and
other activities, and signs or symptoms to worry about.

    * Children will need to be watched and make activity changes.
    * Adults also need close observation and activity changes. 

Both adults and children must follow the provider's instructions about when it
will be possible to return to sports.

You will likely need to stay in the hospital if:

    * Emergency or more severe symptoms of head injury are present
    * There is a skull fracture
    * There is any bleeding under your skull or in the brain 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Healing or recovering from a concussion takes time. It may take days to weeks,
or even months. During that time you may:

    * Be withdrawn, easily upset, or confused
    * Have a hard time with tasks that require memory or concentration
    * Have mild headaches
    * Be less tolerant of noise
    * Be very tired
    * Feel dizzy
    * Have blurry vision at times

These problems will probably recover slowly. You may want to get help from
family or friends for making important decisions.

In a small number of people, symptoms of the concussion do not go away. The
risk for these long-term changes in the brain is higher after more than one
concussion.

Seizures may occur after more severe head injuries. You or your child may need
to take anti-seizure medicines for a period of time.

More severe traumatic brain injuries may result in many brain and nervous
system problems.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call the provider if:

    * A head injury causes changes in alertness.
    * A person has other worrisome symptoms.
    * Symptoms do not go away or are not improving after 2 or 3 weeks.

Call right away if the following symptoms occur:

    * Increased sleepiness or difficulty waking up
    * Stiff neck
    * Changes in behavior or unusual behavior
    * Changes in speech (slurred, difficult to understand, does not make sense)
    * Confusion or problems thinking straight
    * Double vision or blurred vision
    * Fever
    * Fluid or blood leaking from the nose or ears
    * Headache that is getting worse, lasts a long time, or does not get better with over-the-counter pain relievers
    * Problems walking or talking
    * Seizures (jerking of the arms or legs without control)
    * Vomiting more than 3 times 

If symptoms do not go away or are not improving a lot after 2 or 3 weeks, talk
to your provider.

## Prevention

Not all head injuries can be prevented. Increase safety for you and your child
by following these steps:

    * Always use safety equipment during activities that could cause a head injury. These include seat belts, bicycle or motorcycle helmets, and hard hats.
    * Learn and follow bicycle safety recommendations. 

Do not drink and drive. Do not allow yourself to be driven by someone who may
have been drinking alcohol or is otherwise impaired.

## Alternative Names

Brain injury - concussion; Traumatic brain injury - concussion; Closed head
injury - concussion

## Patient Instructions

    * Concussion in adults - discharge
    * Concussion in adults - what to ask your doctor
    * Concussion in children - discharge
    * Concussion in children - what to ask your doctor
    * Preventing head injuries in children

## Images

    * ![Brain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1074t.jpg)Brain
    * ![Concussion](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17143t.jpg)Concussion

## References

Kerr HA. Closed head injury. _Clin Sports Med_. 2013;32(2):273-287. PMID:
23522509 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/ 23522509.

Krach LE. Severe traumatic brain injury. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme
JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 710.

Liebig CW, Congeni JA. Sports-related traumatic brain injury (concussion). In:
Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 688.

Papa L, Goldberg SA. Head trauma. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M,
eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 34.

Rossetti HC, Barth JT, Borshek DK, Freeman JR. Concussion and brain injury.
In: Miller MD, Thompson SR, eds. _DeLee and Drez's Orthopaedic Sports
Medicine: Principles and Practice_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 125.

## Review Date 10/16/2017

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Concussion](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Concussion_thumb.jpg)Concussion
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

