Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000213.htm    
                                Description: Your child has a mild brain injury (concussion). This may affect how your child    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Concussion in children - what to ask your doctor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000213.htm

# Concussion in children - what to ask your doctor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Your child has a mild brain injury (concussion). This may affect how your
child's brain works for some time. Your child may have lost consciousness for
a while. Your child also may have a bad headache.

Below are some questions you may want to ask your health care provider to help
you take care of your child's concussion.

## Questions

What type of symptoms or problems will my child have?

    * Will my child have problems thinking or remembering?
    * How long will these problems last?
    * Will all the symptoms and problems go away?

Does someone need to stay with my child?

    * How long does someone need to stay?
    * Is it OK for my child to go to sleep?
    * Does my child need to be awakened while sleeping?

What type of activity can my child do?

    * Does my child need to stay in bed or lie down?
    * Can my child play around the house?
    * When can my child begin to exercise?
    * When can my child do contact sports, such as football and soccer?
    * When can my child go skiing or snowboarding?
    * Does my child need to wear a helmet?

How can I prevent head injuries in the future?

    * Does my child have the right kind of car seat?
    * In what sports should my child always wear a helmet?
    * Are there sports my child should never play?
    * What can I do to make my home safer?

When can my child go back to school?

    * Are my child's teachers the only school people I should tell about my child's concussion?
    * Can my child stay for a full day?
    * Will my child need to rest during the day?
    * Can my child take part in recess and gym class?
    * How will the concussion affect my child's schoolwork?

Does my child need a special memory test?

What medicines can my child use for any pain or headache? Are ibuprofen
(Advil, Motrin), naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn), or other similar medicines OK?

Is it OK for my child to eat? Will my child have an upset stomach?

Do I need a follow-up appointment?

When should I call the doctor?

## Alternative Names

What to ask your doctor about concussion - child; Mild brain injury - what to
ask your doctor - child

## References

Giza CC, Kutcher JS, Ashwal S, et al. Summary of evidence-based guideline
update: evaluation and management of concussion in sports: report of the
Guideline Development Subcommittee of the American Academy of Neurology.
_Neurology_. 2013;80(24):2250-2257. PMID: 23508730
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23508730.

Liebig CW, Congeni JA. Sports-related traumatic brain injury (concussion). In:
Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 688.

Rossetti HC, Barth JT, Broshek DK, Freeman JR. Concussion and brain injury.
In: Miller MD, Thompson SR, eds. _DeLee and Drez's Orthopaedic Sports
Medicine: Principles and Practice_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 125.

## Read More

    * Concussion
    * Confusion
    * Head injury - first aid
    * Unconsciousness - first aid

## Patient Instructions

    * Brain injury - discharge 
    * Concussion in children - discharge
    * Preventing head injuries in children

## Review Date 10/11/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Concussion

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

