Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000481.htm    
                                Description: Broken bones can be fixed in surgery with metal pins, screws, nails, rods, or plates. These metal pieces hold the bones in place while they heal. Sometimes, the metal pins need to stick out of your skin    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pin care

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000481.htm

# Pin care

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Broken bones can be fixed in surgery with metal pins, screws, nails, rods, or
plates. These metal pieces hold the bones in place while they heal. Sometimes,
the metal pins need to stick out of your skin to hold the broken bone in
place.

The metal and the skin around the pin must stay clean to prevent infection.

## Pin Site

In this article, any metal piece that is sticking out of your skin after
surgery is called a pin. The area where the pin comes out of your skin is
called the pin site. This area includes the pin and the skin around it.

You must keep the pin site clean to prevent infection. If the site becomes
infected, the pin may need to be removed. This could delay bone healing, and
the infection could make you very sick.

## Signs of Infection

Check your pin site every day for signs of infection, such as:

    * Skin redness
    * Skin at the site is warmer
    * Swelling or hardening of the skin
    * Increased pain at the pin site
    * Drainage that is yellow, green, thick, or smelly
    * Fever
    * Numbness or tingling at the pin site
    * Movement or looseness of the pin 

If you think you have an infection, call your surgeon right away.

## Cleaning Supplies

There are different types of pin-cleaning solutions. The two most common
solutions are:

    * Sterile water
    * A mixture of half normal saline and half hydrogen peroxide 

Use the solution that your surgeon recommends.

Supplies you will need to clean your pin site include:

    * Gloves
    * Sterile cup
    * Sterile cotton swabs (about 3 swabs for each pin)
    * Sterile gauze
    * Cleaning solution 

## Cleaning Your pin Site

Clean your pin site twice a day. DO NOT put lotion or cream on the area unless
your surgeon tells you it is OK.

Your surgeon may have special instructions for cleaning your pin site. But the
basic steps are as follows:

    1. Wash and dry your hands.
    2. Put on gloves.
    3. Pour the cleaning solution into a cup and put half of the swabs in the cup to moisten the cotton ends.
    4. Use a clean swab for each pin site. Start at the pin site and clean your skin by moving the swab away from the pin. Move the swab in a circle around the pin, then make the circles around the pin larger as you move away from the pin site.
    5. Remove any dried drainage and debris from your skin with the swab.
    6. Use a new swab or gauze to clean the pin. Start at the pin site and move up the pin, away from your skin.
    7. When you are done cleaning, use a dry swab or gauze in the same way to dry the area. 

For a few days after your surgery you may wrap your pin site in dry sterile
gauze while it heals. After this time, leave the pin site open to air.

If you have an external fixator (a steel bar that may be used for fractures of
long bones), clean it with gauze and cotton swabs dipped in your cleaning
solution every day.

Most people who have pins can take a shower 10 days after surgery. Ask your
surgeon how soon you can shower.

## Alternative Names

Broken bone - rod care; Broken bone - nail care; Broken bone - screw care

## References

Kazmers NH, Fragomen AT, Rozbruch SR. Prevention of pin site infection in
external fixation: a review of the literature. _Strategies Trauma Limb
Reconstr_. 2016;11(2):75-85. PMID: 27174086
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27174086.

Lethaby A, Temple J, Santy-Tomlinson J. Pin site care for preventing
infections associated with external bone fixators and pins. _Cochrane Database
Syst Rev_. 2013;(12):CD004551. PMID: 24302374
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24302374.

Rudloff MI. Fractures of the lower extremity. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale
ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 54.

## Review Date 4/9/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Fractures

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

