Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000521.htm    
                                Description: Closed reduction is a procedure to set (reduce) a broken bone without cutting the skin open. The broken bone is put back in place, which allows it to grow back together. It works best when it is done as    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Closed reduction of a fractured bone

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000521.htm

# Closed reduction of a fractured bone

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Closed reduction is a procedure to set (reduce) a broken bone without cutting
the skin open. The broken bone is put back in place, which allows it to grow
back together. It works best when it is done as soon as possible after the
bone breaks.

A closed reduction can be done by an orthopedic surgeon (bone doctor) or a
primary care provider who has experience doing this procedure.

## What are the Benefits of a Closed Reduction?

A closed reduction can:

    * Help your bone heal quickly and be strong when it heals
    * Decrease pain
    * Improve the chances that your limb will look normal and you will be able to use it normally when it heals
    * Lower the risk of an infection in the bone
    * Remove tension on the skin and reduce swelling 

## Possible Risks During a Closed Reduction

Your health care provider will talk with you about the possible risks of a
closed reduction. Some are:

    * The nerves, blood vessels, and other soft tissues near your bone may be injured.
    * A blood clot could form, and it could travel to your lungs or another part of your body.
    * You could have an allergic reaction to the pain medicine you receive.
    * There may be new fractures that occur with the reduction.
    * If the reduction does not work, you will need surgery. 

Your risk of any of these problems is greater if you:

    * Smoke
    * Take steroids (such as cortisone), birth control pills, or other hormones (such as insulin)
    * Are older
    * Have other health conditions such as diabetes and hypothyroidism

## About the Procedure

The procedure is often painful. You will receive medicine to block the pain
during the procedure. You might receive:

    * A local anesthetic or nerve block to numb the area (usually given as a shot)
    * A sedative to make you relaxed but not asleep (usually given through an IV, or intravenous line)
    * General anesthesia to make you sleep during the procedure 

After you receive pain medicine, your provider will set the bone in the right
position by pushing or pulling the bone. This is called traction.

After the bone is set:

    * You will have an x-ray to make sure the bone is in the right position.
    * A cast or splint will be put on your limb to keep the bone in the right position and protect it while it heals. 

## After Your Procedure

If you do not have other injuries or problems, you will be able to go home a
few hours after the procedure.

Until your provider advises, DO NOT:

    * Place rings on your fingers or toes over your injured arm or leg. 
    * Bear weight on the injured leg or arm.

## Alternative Names

Fracture reduction - closed

## References

Browner BD, Jupiter JB, Krettek C, Anderson PA. Closed fracture management.
In: Browner BD, Jupiter JB, Krettek C, Anderson PA, eds. _Skeletal Trauma:
Basic Science, Management, and Reconstruction_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 6.

Whittle AP. General principles of fracture treatment. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH,
Canale ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 53.

## Review Date 4/9/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Dislocated Shoulder
    * Fractures

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

