Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007644.htm    
                                Description: Surgeons use hardware such as pins, plates, or screws to help fix a broken bone or to correct an abnormality in a bone. Most often, this involves bones of the legs, arms, or spine.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hardware removal - extremity

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007644.htm

# Hardware removal - extremity

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Surgeons use hardware such as pins, plates, or screws to help fix a broken
bone or to correct an abnormality in a bone. Most often, this involves bones
of the legs, arms, or spine.

Later, if you have pain or other problems related to the hardware, you may
have surgery to remove the hardware. This is called hardware removal surgery.

## Description

For the procedure, you may be given medicine to numb the area (local
anesthesia) while you are awake. Or you may be put to sleep so you do notÂ
feel anything during the surgery (general anesthesia).

Monitors will keep track of your blood pressure, heart rate, and breathing
during the surgery.

During the surgery, your surgeon may:

    * Open the original incision or use new or longer incisions to remove hardware
    * Remove any scar tissue that has formed over the hardware
    * Remove the old hardware. Sometimes, new hardware may be put in its place.

Depending on the reason for the surgery, you may have other procedures at the
same time. Your surgeon may remove infected tissue if needed. If the bones
have not healed, additional procedures may be done, such as a bone graft.Â Â Â

Your surgeon will close the incision with stitches, staples, or special glue.
It will be covered with a bandage to help prevent infection.  

## Why the Procedure is Performed

There are several reasons why hardware is removed:

    * Pain from the hardware
    * Infection
    * Allergic reaction to hardware
    * To prevent problems with growing bones in young people
    * Nerve damage
    * Broken hardware
    * Bones that did not heal and join properly
    * You are young and your bones are still growing

## Risks

Risks for any procedure that requires sedation are:

    * Reactions to medicine
    * Breathing problems

Risks for any type of surgery include:

    * Bleeding
    * Blood clot
    * Infection

Risks for hardware removal surgery are:

    * Infection
    * Re-fracture of the bone
    * Nerve damage  

## Before the Procedure

Before the surgery, you may have x-rays of the hardware. You also may need
blood or urine tests.

Always tell your health care provider what medicines, supplements, or herbs
you take.

    * You may be asked to stop taking certain medicines before your surgery.
    * Ask your provider which drugs you should still take on the day of your surgery.
    * If you smoke, try to stop. Smoking can slow healing.
    * You may be asked not to drink or eat anything for 6Â to 12 hours before surgery.  

## After the Procedure

You should have someone drive you home after the surgery.

You will need to keep the area clean and dry. Your provider will give you
instructions about wound care.

Ask your provider when it is safe to put weight on or use your limb. How long
it takes to recover depends on whether you have had other procedures, such as
a bone graft. Ask your provider how long it may take to heal so you can resume
all your regular activities.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most people have less pain and better function after hardware removal.

## References

Baratz ME. Disorders of the forearm axis. In: Wolfe SW, Hotchkiss RN, Pederson
WC, Kozin SH, Cohen MS, eds. _Green's Operative Hand Surgery_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 21.

Richter M, Kwon JY, DiGiovanni CW. Foot injuries. In: Browner BD, Jupiter JB,
Krettek C, Anderson PA, eds. _Skeletal Trauma: Basic Science, Management, and
Reconstruction_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 67.

Rudloff MI. Fractures of the lower extremity In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale ST,
eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 54.

## Review Date 8/15/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Fractures](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Fracture_thumb.jpg)Fractures _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

