Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000017.htm    
                                Description: A sling is a device used to support and keep still (immobilize) an injured part of the body.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

How to make a sling

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000017.htm

# How to make a sling

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A sling is a device used to support and keep still (immobilize) an injured
part of the body.

Slings can be used for many different injuries. They are most often used when
you have a broken (fractured) or dislocated arm or shoulder.

## Considerations

If an injury needs a splint, apply the splint first and then apply the sling.

Always check the person's skin color and pulse (circulation) after the injured
body part has been splinted. Loosen the splint and bandage if:

    * The area becomes cool or turns pale or blue
    * Numbness or tingling develops in the injured body part

Injuries to nerves or blood vessels often occur with an arm injury. The health
care provider should check circulation, movement, and feeling in the injured
area often.

The purpose of a splint is to prevent movement of the broken or dislocated
bone. Splints reduce pain, and help prevent further damage to muscles, nerves,
and blood vessels. Splinting also reduces the risk of opening a closed injury.

## First Aid

Care for all wounds before applying a splint or sling. If you can see bone in
the injured site, call your local emergency number (such as 911) or local
hospital for advice.

HOW TO MAKE A SLING

    1. Find a piece of cloth that is about 5 feet (1.5 meters) wide at the base and at least 3 feetÂ (1 meter)Â long on the sides. (If the sling is for a child, you can use a smaller size.)
    2. Cut a triangle out of a piece of this cloth. If you don't have scissors handy, fold a large square piece of cloth diagonally into a triangle.
    3. Place the person's elbow at the top point of the triangle, and the wrist midway along the triangle's bottom edge. Bring theÂ two free points up around the front and back of the same (or opposite) shoulder.
    4. Adjust the sling so the arm rests comfortably, with the hand higher than the elbow. The elbow should be bent at a right angle.
    5. Tie the sling together at the side of the neck and pad the knot for comfort.
    6. If the sling was placed correctly, the person's arm should rest comfortably against his or her chest with the fingertips exposed. 

Other tips:

    * If you do not have material or scissors to make a triangle sling, you can make one using a coat or a shirt.
    * You can also make a sling using a belt, rope, vine, or sheet.
    * If the injured arm should be kept still, tie the sling to the body with another piece of cloth wrapped around the chest and tied on the uninjured side.
    * Occasionally check for tightness, and adjust the sling as needed. 

## DO NOT

DO NOT try to realign an injured body part unless the skin looks pale or blue,
or there is no pulse.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Seek medical help if the person has a dislocation, broken bone, or severe
bleeding. Also get medical help if you cannot completely immobilize the injury
at the scene by yourself.

## Prevention

Safety is the best way to avoid broken bones caused by falling. Some diseases
make bones break more easily. Use caution when helping a person with fragile
bones.

Activities that strain the muscles or bones for long periods of time should be
avoided, becauseÂ theseÂ can cause weakness and falls. Use care when walking
on slippery or uneven surfaces.

## Alternative Names

Sling - instructions

## Images

    * ![Triangular shoulder sling](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19688t.jpg)Triangular shoulder sling
    * ![Shoulder sling](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19689t.jpg)Shoulder sling
    * ![Creating a sling - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/15018t.jpg)Creating a sling - series

## References

Auerbach PS. Fractures and dislocations. In: Auerbach PS, ed. _Medicine for
the Outdoors._ 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:67-107.

Klimke A, Furin M. Prehospital immobilization. In: Roberts JR, Hedges JR, eds.
_Clinical Procedures in Emergency Medicine._ 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 46.

## Review Date 10/16/2017

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Dislocations](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Dislocations_thumb.jpg)Dislocations
_Read more_

![A photograph of a man administering first aid to a
woman](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TI_FirstAid_thumb.jpg)First Aid _Read
more_

![Fractures](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Fracture_thumb.jpg)Fractures _Read
more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

