Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000522.htm    
                                Description: Closed reduction is a procedure to set (reduce) a broken bone without surgery. It allows the bone to grow back together. It can be done by an orthopedic surgeon (bone doctor) or a primary care provider    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Closed reduction of a fractured bone - aftercare

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000522.htm

# Closed reduction of a fractured bone - aftercare

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Closed reduction is a procedure to set (reduce) a broken bone without surgery.
It allows the bone to grow back together. It can be done by an orthopedic
surgeon (bone doctor) or a primary care provider who has experience doing this
procedure.

After the procedure, your broken limb will be placed in a cast.

Healing can take anywhere from 8 to 12 weeks. How quickly you heal will depend
on:

    * Your age
    * The size of the bone that broke
    * The type of break
    * Your general health 

## Self-care at Home

Rest your limb (arm or leg) as much as possible. When you are resting, raise
your limb above the level of your heart. You can prop it up on pillows, a
chair, a footstool, or something else.

DO NOT place rings on your fingers or toes until your health care provider
tells you it is OK.

You may have some pain the first few days after getting a cast. Using an ice
pack can help.

Check with your provider about taking over-the-counter medicines for pain such
as:

    * Ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin)
    * Naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn)
    * Acetaminophen (such as Tylenol)

Remember to:

    * Talk with your provider if you have heart disease, high blood pressure, liver disease, kidney disease, or have had stomach ulcers or bleeding.
    * NOT give aspirin to children under age 12 years.
    * NOT take more pain killer than the dosage recommended on the bottle or by your provider.

Your provider may prescribe a stronger medicine if needed.

## Activity

Until your provider tells you it is OK DO NOT:

    * Drive
    * Play sports
    * Do exercises that could injure your limb 

If you have been given crutches to help you walk, use them each time you move
about. DO NOT hop on 1 leg. You can easily lose your balance and fall, causing
more serious injury.

## Cast Care

General care guidelines for your cast include:

    * Keep your cast dry.
    * DO NOT put anything inside your cast.
    * DO NOT put powder or lotion on your skin beneath your cast.
    * DO NOT remove the padding around the edges of your cast or break off part of your cast.
    * DO NOT scratch under your cast.
    * If your cast does get wet, use a hair dryer on the cool setting to help it dry.
    * DO NOT walk on your cast unless your provider tells you it is OK. Many casts are not strong enough to bear weight. 

You can use a special sleeve to cover your cast while you shower. DO NOT take
baths, soak in a hot tub, or go swimming until your provider tells you it is
OK.

## Follow-up

You will likely have a follow-up visit with your provider 5 days to 2 weeks
after your closed reduction.

Your provider may want you to start physical therapy or do other gentle
movements while you heal. This will help keep your injured limb and other
limbs from getting too weak or stiff.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if your cast:

    * Feels too tight or too loose
    * Makes your skin itch, burn, or hurt in any way
    * Cracks or becomes soft

Also call your provider if you have any signs of infection. Some of these are:

    * Fever or chills
    * Swelling or redness of your limb
    * Foul smell coming from the cast

See your provider right away or go to the emergency room if:

    * Your injured limb feels numb or has a "pins and needles" feeling.
    * You have pain that does not go away with pain medicine.
    * The skin around your cast looks pale, blue, black, or white (particularly fingers or toes).
    * It is hard to move the fingers or toes of your injured limb.

Also get care right away if you have:

    * Chest pain
    * Shortness of breath
    * A cough that starts suddenly and may produce blood

## Alternative Names

Fracture reduction - closed - aftercare; Cast care

## References

Browner BD, Jupiter JBl, Krettek C, Anderson PA. Closed fracture management.
In: Browner BD, Jupiter JB, Krettek C, Anderson PA, eds. _Skeletal Trauma:
Basic Science, Management, and Reconstruction_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 6.

Whittle AP. General principles of fracture treatment. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH,
Canale ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 53.

## Review Date 4/9/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Dislocated Shoulder
    * Fractures

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

