Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003030.htm    
                                Description: An epicanthal fold is skin of the upper eyelid that covers the inner corner of the eye. The fold runs from nose to the inner side of the eyebrow.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Epicanthal folds

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003030.htm

# Epicanthal folds

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An epicanthal fold is skin of the upper eyelid that covers the inner corner of
the eye. The fold runs from nose to the inner side of the eyebrow.

## Causes

Epicanthal folds may be normal for people of Asiatic descent and some non-
Asian infants. Epicanthal folds also may be seen in young children of any race
before the bridge of the nose begins to rise.

However, they may also be due to certain medical conditions, including:

    * Down syndrome
    * Fetal alcohol syndrome
    * Turner syndrome
    * Phenylketonuria (PKU)
    * Williams syndrome
    * Noonan syndrome
    * Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome
    * Blepharophimosis syndrome 

## Home Care

In most cases, no home care needed.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

This trait is most often found before or during the first well-baby exam. Call
your health care provider if you notice epicanthal folds on your child's eyes
and the reason for their presence is unknown.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will examine the child and ask questions about the medical
history and symptoms. Questions may include:

    * Do any family members have Down syndrome or other genetic disorder?
    * Is there a family history of intellectual disability or birth defects?Â 

A child who is not Asian and is born with epicanthal folds may be examined for
additional signs of Down syndrome or other genetic disorders.

## Alternative Names

Plica palpebronasalis

## Images

    * ![The face](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1095t.jpg)The face
    * ![Epicanthal fold](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17169t.jpg)Epicanthal fold
    * ![Epicanthal folds](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9298t.jpg)Epicanthal folds

## References

Madan-Khetarpal S, Arnold G. Genetic disorders and dysmorphic conditions. In:
Zitelli BJ, McIntire SC, Nowalk AJ, eds. _Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of
Pediatric Physical Diagnosis_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap
1.

Olitsky SE, Marsh JD. Abnormalities of the lids. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW,
Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_.
21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 642.

Ãrge FH, Grigorian F. Examination and common problems of the neonatal eye.
In: Martin RJ, Fanaroff AA, Walsh MC, eds. _Fanaroff and Martin's Neonatal-
Perinatal Medicine_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap
103.

## Review Date 3/6/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Photograph of an
eye](https://medlineplus.gov/images/eye-211610_640_thumb.jpg)Eyelid Disorders
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

