Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001009.htm    
                                Description: Most bumps on the eyelid are styes. A stye is an inflamed oil gland on the edge of your eyelid, where the lash meets the lid. It appears as a red, swollen bump that looks like a pimple. It is often tender    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Eyelid bump

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001009.htm

# Eyelid bump

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Most bumps on the eyelid are styes. A stye is an inflamed oil gland on the
edge of your eyelid, where the lash meets the lid. It appears as a red,
swollen bump that looks like a pimple. It is often tender to the touch.

![Stye](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/1117.jpg)

## Causes

A stye is caused by a blockage of one of the oil glands in the eyelids. This
allows bacteria to grow inside the blocked gland. Styes are a lot like common
acne pimples that occur elsewhere on the skin. You may have more than one stye
at the same time.

Styes most often develop over a few days. They may drain and heal on their
own. A stye can become a chalazion, which occurs when an inflamed oil gland
becomes fully blocked. If a chalazion gets large enough, it can cause trouble
with your vision.

If you have blepharitis, you are more likely to get styes.

Other possible common eyelid bumps include:

    * Xanthelasma: Raised yellow patches on your eyelids that can happen with age. These are harmless, although they are sometimes a sign of high cholesterol.
    * Papillomas: Pink or skin-colored bumps. They are harmless, but can slowly grow, affect your vision, or bother you for cosmetic reasons. If so, they can be surgically removed.
    * Cysts: Small fluid-filled sacs that can affect your vision. 

## Symptoms

In addition to the red, swollen bump, other possible symptoms of a stye
include:

    * A gritty, scratchy sensation, as if there is a foreign body in your eye
    * Sensitivity to light
    * Tearing of your eye
    * Tenderness of the eyelid

## Exams and Tests

In most cases, your health care provider can diagnose a stye just by looking
at it. Tests are rarely needed.

## Treatment

To treat eyelid bumps at home:

    * Apply a warm, wet cloth to the area for 10 minutes. Do thisÂ 4 times a day.
    * Do NOT attempt to squeeze a stye or any other type of eyelid bump. Let it drain on its own.
    * Do NOT use contact lenses or wear eye makeup until the area has healed. 

For a stye, your doctor may:

    * Prescribe antibiotic ointment
    * Make an opening in the stye to drain it (Do NOT try this at home) 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Styes often get better on their own. However, they may return.

The outcome is almost always excellent with simple treatment.

Sometimes, the infection may spread to the rest of the eyelid. This is called
eyelid cellulitis and may require oral antibiotics. This can look like orbital
cellulitis, which can be serious problem, especially in children.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if:

    * You have problems with your vision.
    * The eyelid bump worsens or does not improve within a week or two of self-care.
    * The eyelid bump or bumps become very large or painful.
    * You have a blister on your eyelid.
    * You have crusting or scaling of your eyelids.
    * Your whole eyelid is red, or the eye itself is red.
    * You are very sensitive to light or have excessive tears.
    * Another stye comes back soon after successful treatment of a stye.
    * Your eyelid bump bleeds. 

## Prevention

Always wash your hands very well before touching the skin around your eye. If
you are prone to getting styes or have blepharitis, it may help to carefully
clean off excess oils from the edges of your lids. To do this, use a solution
of warm water and no-tears baby shampoo. Fish oil taken by mouth may help
prevent plugging of the oil glands.

## Alternative Names

Bump on the eyelid; Stye; Hordeolum

## Images

    * ![Eye](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1094t.jpg)Eye
    * ![Stye](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1117t.jpg)Stye

## References

Dupre AA, Wightman JM. Red and painful eye. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 19.

Sciarretta V, Dematte M, Farneti P, et al. Management of orbital cellulitis
and subperiosteal orbital abscess in pediatric patients: A ten-year review.
_Int J Pediatr Otorhinolaryngol_. 2017;96:72-76. PMID: 28390618
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28390618.

Wu F, Lin JH, Korn BS, Kikkawa DO. Benign and premalignant tumors of the
eyelid. In: Fay A, Dolman PJ, eds. _Diseases and Disorders of the Orbit and
Ocular Adnexa_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 22.

Yanoff M, Cameron JD. Diseases of the visual system. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 423.

## Review Date 8/28/2018

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Photograph of an
eye](https://medlineplus.gov/images/eye-211610_640_thumb.jpg)Eyelid Disorders
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

