Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001007.htm    
                                Description: Ectropion is the turning out of the eyelid so that the inner surface is exposed. It most often affects the lower eyelid.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ectropion

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001007.htm

# Ectropion

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Ectropion is the turning out of the eyelid so that the inner surface is
exposed. It most often affects the lower eyelid.

## Causes

Ectropion is very often caused by the aging process. The connective
(supporting) tissue of the eyelid becomes weak. This causes the lid to turn
out so that the inside of the lower lid is no longer against the eyeball. It
can also be caused by:

    * A defect that occurs before birth (for example, in children with Down syndrome)
    * Facial palsy
    * Scar tissue from burns

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

    * Dry, painful eyes
    * Excess tearing of the eye (epiphora)
    * Eyelid turns outward (downward)
    * Long-term (chronic) conjunctivitis
    * Keratitis
    * Redness of the lid and white part of the eye 

If you have ectropion, you will most likely have excess tearing. This happens
because the eye gets dry, then makes more tears. The excess tears can't get
into the tear drainage duct. Therefore, they build up inside the lower lid and
then spill over the edge of the lid onto the cheek.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will make a diagnosis by doing an exam of the eyes
and eyelids. Special tests are not needed most of the time.

## Treatment

Artificial tears (a lubricant) may ease dryness and keep the cornea moist.
Ointment may be helpful when the eye can't close all of the way, such as when
you are asleep. Surgery is very often effective. When ectropion is related to
aging or paralysis, the surgeon can tighten the muscles that hold the eyelids
in place. If the condition is due to scarring of the skin, a skin graft or
laser treatment may be used. The surgery is most often done in the office or
at an outpatient surgery center. A medicine is used to numb the area (local
anesthesia) before the surgery.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome is very often good with treatment.

## Possible Complications

Corneal dryness and irritation may lead to:

    * Corneal abrasions
    * Corneal ulcers
    * Eye infections

Corneal ulcers can cause vision loss.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of ectropion.

If you have ectropion, get emergency medical help if you have:

    * Vision that is getting worse
    * Pain
    * Sensitivity to light
    * Eye redness that is getting worse quickly

## Prevention

Most cases are cannot be prevented. You may use artificial tears or ointments
to prevent injury to the cornea.Â

## Images

    * ![Eye](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1094t.jpg)Eye

## References

Nicoli F, Orfaniotis G, Ciudad P, Maruccia M, et al. Correction of cicatricial
ectropion using non-ablative fractional laser resurfacing. _Lasers Med Sci_.
2018. [Epub ahead of print]

Olitsky SE, Hug D, Plummer LS, Stahl ED, Arris MM, Lindquist TP. Abnormalities
of the lids. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson
Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 624.

Robinson FO, Richard J, Collin O. Ectropion. In: Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds.
_Ophthalmology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 12.7.

Yanoff M, Cameron JD. Diseases of the visual system. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 423.

## Review Date 8/28/2018

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Photograph of an
eye](https://medlineplus.gov/images/eye-211610_640_thumb.jpg)Eyelid Disorders
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

