Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000756.htm    
                                Description: An eyelid twitch is a general term for spasms of the eyelid muscles. These spasms happen without your control. The eyelid may repeatedly close (or nearly close) and reopen. This article discusses eyelid    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Eyelid twitch

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000756.htm

# Eyelid twitch

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An eyelid twitch is a general term for spasms of the eyelid muscles. These
spasms happen without your control. The eyelid may repeatedly close (or nearly
close) and reopen. This article discusses eyelid twitches in general.

## Causes

The most common things that make the muscle in your eyelid twitch are fatigue,
stress, caffeine, and heavy alcohol intake. Rarely, they can be a side effect
of a medicine used for migraine headaches. Once spasms begin, they may
continue off and on for a few days. Then, they disappear. Most people have
this type of eyelid twitch once in a while and find it very annoying. In most
cases, you won't even notice when the twitch has stopped.

You may have more severe contractions, where the eyelid completely closes.
These can be caused by irritation of the:

    * Surface of the eye (cornea)
    * Membranes lining the eyelids (conjunctiva) 

Sometimes, the reason your eyelid is twitching cannot be found. This form of
eyelid twitching is called blepharospasm. It lasts much longer and is often
very uncomfortable. It can also cause your eyelids to close completely.

## Symptoms

Common symptoms of eyelid twitch are:

    * Repeated uncontrollable twitching or spasms of your eyelid (most often the upper lid)
    * Light sensitivity (sometimes, this is the cause of the twitching)
    * Blurry vision (sometimes) 

## Treatment

Eyelid twitching most often goes away without treatment. In the meantime, the
following steps may help:

    * Get more sleep.
    * Drink less caffeine.
    * Lubricate your eyes with eye drops. 

If twitching is severe or lasts a long time, small injections of botulinum
toxin can control the spasms.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outlook depends on the specific type or cause of eyelid twitch. In most
cases, the twitches stop within a week.

## Possible Complications

There could be some loss of vision if the eyelid twitch is due to an
undetected injury. This occurs rarely.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your primary care doctor or eye doctor (ophthalmologist orÂ optometrist)
if:

    * Eyelid twitching does not go away within 1 week
    * Twitching completely closes your eyelid
    * Twitching involves other parts of your face
    * You have redness, swelling, or a discharge from your eye
    * Your upper eyelid is drooping

## Alternative Names

Eyelid spasm; Eye twitch; Twitch - eyelid; Blepharospasm; Myokymia

## Images

    * ![Eye](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1094t.jpg)Eye
    * ![Eye muscles](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19661t.jpg)Eye muscles

## References

Bowling B. Neuro-ophthalmology. In: Bowling B, ed. _Kanski's Clinical
Ophthalmology_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 19.

Phillips LT, Friedman DI. Disorders of the neuromuscular junction. In: Yanoff
M, Duker JS, eds. _Ophthalmology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 9.17.

Thurtell MJ, Rucker JC. Pupillary and eyelid abnormalities. In: Daroff RB,
Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical
Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 18.

Yanoff M, Cameron JD. Diseases of the visual system. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 423.

## Review Date 8/28/2018

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Photograph of an
eye](https://medlineplus.gov/images/eye-211610_640_thumb.jpg)Eyelid Disorders
_Read more_

![Muscle
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MuscleDisorders_thumb.jpg)Muscle
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

