Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001006.htm    
                                Description: A chalazion is a small bump in the eyelid caused by a blockage of a tiny oil gland.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Chalazion

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001006.htm

# Chalazion

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A chalazion is a small bump in the eyelid caused by a blockage of a tiny oil
gland.

## Causes

A chalazion is caused by a blocked duct in one of the meibomian glands. These
glands are located in the eyelid directly behind the eyelashes. They produce a
thin, oily fluid that lubricates the eye.

## Symptoms

A chalazion often develops following an internal hordeolum (also called a
stye). The eyelid most often becomes tender, red, swollen and warm. Sometimes,
the blocked gland causing the stye will not drain even though the redness and
swelling go away. The gland will form a firm nodule in the eyelid that is not
tender. This is called a chalazion.

## Exams and Tests

An exam of the eyelid confirms the diagnosis.

Rarely, skin cancer of the eyelid may look like a chalazion. If this is
suspected, you may need a biopsy.

## Treatment

A chalazion will often go away without treatment in a month or so.

    * The first treatment is to place warm compresses over the eyelid for 10 to 15 minutes at least four times a day. Use lukewarm water (no hotter than you can leave your hand in comfortably). This may soften the hardened oils blocking the duct, and lead to drainage and healing.
    * DO NOT push or squeeze the chalazion. 

If the chalazion continues to get bigger, it may need to be removed with
surgery. This is most often done from the inside of the eyelid to avoid a scar
on the skin.

Steroid injection is another treatment option.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Chalazia most often heal on their own. The outcome with treatment is excellent
in most cases.

## Possible Complications

Rarely, a chalazion will heal by itself but may leave a scar on the eyelid.
This problem is more common after surgery to remove the chalazion, but is
still rare. You may lose some eyelashes or you may have a small notch in the
edge of the eyelid. The most common complication is a return of the problem.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if lumps on the eyelid continue to get bigger
despite treatment, or you have an area of eyelash loss.

## Prevention

It may help to gently scrub the edge of the lid at the eyelash line nightly to
prevent chalazia or styes. Use eye cleansing pads or diluted baby shampoo.

Apply antibiotic ointment prescribed by your provider after scrubbing the
eyelids. You can also apply warm compresses to the eyelid daily.

## Alternative Names

Meibomian gland lipogranuloma

## Images

    * ![Eye](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1094t.jpg)Eye

## References

Neff AG, Chahal HS, Carter KD. Benign eyelid lesions. In: Yanoff M, Duker JS,
eds. _Ophthalmology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 12.7.

Yanoff M, Cameron JD. Diseases of the visual system. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 423.

## Review Date 9/30/2018

Updated by: Audrey Tai, DO, MS, Assistant Clinical Professor (Voluntary),
University of California - Irvine, Irvine, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Photograph of an
eye](https://medlineplus.gov/images/eye-211610_640_thumb.jpg)Eyelid Disorders
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

