Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001018.htm    
                                Description: Eyelid drooping is excess sagging of the upper eyelid. The edge of the upper eyelid may be lower than it should be (ptosis) or there may be excess baggy skin in the upper eyelid (dermatochalasis). Eyelid    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Eyelid drooping

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001018.htm

# Eyelid drooping

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Eyelid drooping is excess sagging of the upper eyelid. The edge of the upper
eyelid may be lower than it should be (ptosis) or there may be excess baggy
skin in the upper eyelid (dermatochalasis). Eyelid drooping is often a
combination of both conditions.

The problem is also called ptosis.

## Causes

A drooping eyelid is most often due to:

    * Weakness of the muscle that raises the eyelid
    * Damage to the nerves that control that muscle
    * Looseness of the skin of the upper eyelids 

Drooping eyelid can be:

    * Caused by the normal aging process
    * Present before birth
    * The result of an injury or disease 

Diseases or illnesses that may lead to eyelid drooping include:

    * Tumor around or behind the eye
    * Diabetes
    * Horner syndrome
    * Myasthenia gravisÂ 
    * Stroke
    * Swelling in the eyelid, such as with a stye 

## Symptoms

Drooping may be present in one or both eyelids depending on the cause. The lid
may cover only the upper eye, or the entire pupil may be covered.

Problems with vision will also be present:

    * At first, just a sense that the very upper field of vision is being blocked.
    * When the drooping eyelid covers the pupil of the eye, vision may become completely blocked.
    * Children may tip their head back to help them see under the eyelid.
    * Tiredness and achiness around the eyes may also be present.

Increased tearing despite a feeling of dry eyes may be noticed.

## Exams and Tests

When drooping is on one side only, it is easy to detect by comparing the two
eyelids. Drooping is more difficult to detect when it occurs on both sides, or
if there is only a slight problem. Comparing the current extent of drooping
with the amount shown in old photos may help you detect the progression of the
problem.

A physical exam will be done to determine the cause.

Tests that may be performed include:

    * Slit-lamp examination
    * Tensilon test for myasthenia gravis
    * Visual field testing

## Treatment

If a disease is found, it will be treated. Most cases ofÂ drooping eyelidsÂ
are due to aging and there is no disease involved.

Eyelid lift surgery (blepharoplasty) is done to repair sagging or drooping
upper eyelids.

    * In milder cases, itÂ can be done to improve the appearance of the eyelids.Â 
    * In more severe cases, surgery may beÂ needed to correct interference with vision. 
    * In children with ptosis, surgery may be needed to prevent amblyopia, also called "lazy eye."

## Outlook (Prognosis)

A drooping eyelid can stay constant, worsen over time (be progressive), or
come and go (be intermittent).

The expected outcome depends on the cause of the ptosis. In most cases,
surgery is very successful in restoring appearance and function.

In children, more severe drooping eyelids may lead to lazy eye or amblyopia.
This may result in long-term vision loss.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your health care provider if:

    * Eyelid drooping is affecting your appearance or vision.
    * One eyelid suddenly droops or closes.
    * It is associated with other symptoms, such as double vision or pain. 

See an eye specialist (ophthalmologist) for:

    * Drooping eyelids in children
    * New or rapidly changing eyelid drooping in adults 

## Alternative Names

Ptosis, Dermatochalasis; Blepharoptosis; Third nerve palsy - ptosis; Baggy
eyelids

## Images

    * ![Ptosis - drooping of the eyelid](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1111t.jpg)Ptosis - drooping of the eyelid

## References

Custer PL. Blepharoptosis. In: Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds. _Ophthalmology_. 4th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 12.5.

Friedman O, Zaldivar RA, Wang TD. Blepharoplasty. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH,
Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head and Neck Surgery_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 29.

Olitsky SE, Hug D, Plummer LS, Stahl ED, et al. Abnormalities of the lids. In:
Kliegman RM, Lye SP, Bordini BJ, Toth H, Basel D, eds. _Nelson Pediatric
Symptom-Based Diagnosis_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018;chap 624.

Yanoff M, Cameron D. Diseases of the visual system. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI,
eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 423.

## Review Date 8/28/2018

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Photograph of an
eye](https://medlineplus.gov/images/eye-211610_640_thumb.jpg)Eyelid Disorders
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

