Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003316.htm    
                                Description: The palpebral slant is the direction of the slant of a line that goes from the outer corner of the eye to the inner corner.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Palpebral slant - eye

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003316.htm

# Palpebral slant - eye

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The palpebral slant is the direction of the slant of a line that goes from the
outer corner of the eye to the inner corner.

## Considerations

The palpebral are the upper and lower eyelids, which make up the shape of the
eye. A line drawn from the inner corner to the outer corner determines the
slant of the eye, or palpebral slant. Slanting and a fold of skin (epicanthal
fold) are normal in people of Asian descent.

Abnormal slanting of the eye may occur with some genetic disorders and
syndromes. The most common of these is Down syndrome. People with Down
syndrome often also have an epicanthal fold in the inner corner of the eye.

## Causes

Palpebral slant may not be part of any other defect. However, in some cases,
it may be due to:

    * Down syndrome
    * Fetal alcohol syndrome
    * Certain genetic disorders

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your health care provider if:

    * Your infant has abnormal features of the face
    * You are worried about your infant's ability to move their eyes
    * You notice any abnormal color, swelling, or discharge from your infant's eyes 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will perform a physical exam and ask questions about your
child's medical history and symptoms.

An infant with an abnormal palpebral slant will usually have other symptoms of
another health condition. That condition will be diagnosed based on a family
history, medical history, and a physical exam.

Tests to confirm a disorder may include:

    * Chromosome studies
    * Enzyme assays
    * Metabolic studies
    * X-rays

## Alternative Names

Mongolian slant

## Images

    * ![Palpebral slant](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9718t.jpg)Palpebral slant

## References

Kataguiri P, Kenyon KR, Batta P, Wadia HP, Sugar J. Corneal and external eye
manifestations of systemic disease. In: Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds.
_Ophthalmology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 4.25.

Madan-Khetarpal S, Arnold G. Genetic disorders and dysmorphic conditions. In:
Zitelli BJ, McIntire SC, Nowalk AJ, eds. _Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of
Pediatric Physical Diagnosis_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap
1.

Ãrge FH. Examination and common problems in the neonatal eye. In: Martin RJ,
Fanaroff AA, Walsh MC, eds. _Fanaroff and Martin's Neonatal-Perinatal
Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 95.

Slavotinek AM. Dysmorphology. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS,
Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 128.

## Review Date 5/17/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Photograph of an
eye](https://medlineplus.gov/images/eye-211610_640_thumb.jpg)Eyelid Disorders
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

