Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001619.htm    
                                Description: Blepharitis is inflamed, irritated, itchy, and reddened eyelids. It most often occurs where the eyelashes grow. Dandruff-like debris builds up at the base of the eyelashes as well.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Blepharitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001619.htm

# Blepharitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Blepharitis is inflamed, irritated, itchy, and reddened eyelids. It most often
occurs where the eyelashes grow. Dandruff-like debris builds up at the base of
the eyelashes as well.

## Causes

The exact cause of blepharitis is unknown. It is thought to be due to:

    * An overgrowth of bacteria.
    * A decrease or breakdown of the normal oils produced by the eyelid.

Blepharitis is more likely to be seen in people with:

    * A skin condition called seborrheic dermatitis or seborrhea. This problem involves the scalp, eyebrows, eyelids, skin behind the ears, and the creases of the nose.
    * Allergies that affect the eyelashes (less common).
    * Excess growth of the bacteria that are normally found on the skin.
    * Rosacea, which is a skin condition that causes a red rash on the face.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

    * Red, irritated eyelids
    * Scales that stick to the base of the eyelashes
    * Burning feeling in the eyelids
    * Crusting, itching and swelling of the eyelids

You may feel like you have sand or dust in your eye when you blink. Sometimes,
the eyelashes may fall out. The eyelids may become scarred if the condition
continues long-term.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider can most often make the diagnosis by looking at the
eyelids during an eye exam.Â Special photos of the glands that produce oil for
the eyelids can be taken to see if they are healthy or not.

## Treatment

Cleaning the edges of the eyelid every day will help remove excess bacteria
and oil. Your provider might recommend using baby shampoo or special
cleansers. Using an antibiotic ointment on the eyelid or taking antibiotic
pills may help treat the problem. It may also help to take fish oil
supplements.

If you have blepharitis:

    * Apply warm compresses to your eyes for 5 minutes, at least 2 times per day.
    * After the warm compresses, gently rub a solution of warm water and no-tears baby shampoo along your eyelid, where the lash meets the lid, using a cotton swab.

A device has recently been developed that can warm and massage the eyelids to
increase the flow of oil from the glands. The role of this device remains
unclear.

A drug containing hypochlorous acid, which is sprayed onto the eyelids, has
been shown to be helpful in certain cases of blepharitis, especially when
rosacea is also present.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome is most often good with treatment. You may need to keep the eyelid
clean to prevent the problem from coming back. Continuing treatment will ease
redness and help make your eyes more comfortable.

Styes and chalazia are more common in people with blepharitis.Â

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if symptoms get worse or DO NOT improve after several days
of carefully cleaning your eyelids.

## Prevention

Cleaning the eyelids carefully will help reduce the chances of getting
blepharitis. Treat skin conditions that may add to the problem.

## Alternative Names

Eyelid inflammation; Meibomian gland dysfunction

## Images

    * ![Eye](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1094t.jpg)Eye
    * ![Blepharitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9120t.jpg)Blepharitis

## References

Blackie CA, Coleman CA, Holland EJ. The sustained effect (12 months) of a
single-dose vectored thermal pulsation procedure for meibomian gland
dysfunction and evaporative dry eye. _Clin Ophthalmol_. 2016;10:1385-1396.
PMID: 27555745 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27555745.

Isteitiya J, Gadaria-Rathod N, Fernandez KB, Asbell PA. Blepharitis. In:
Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds. _Ophthalmology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 4.4.

Yanoff M, Cameron JD. Diseases of the visual system. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 423.

## Review Date 8/28/2018

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Eye
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EyeInfectionsNew_thumb.jpg)Eye
Infections _Read more_

![Photograph of an
eye](https://medlineplus.gov/images/eye-211610_640_thumb.jpg)Eyelid Disorders
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

