Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003035.htm    
                                Description: Ptosis (eyelid drooping) in infants and children is when the upper eyelid is lower than it should be. This may occur in one or both eyes. Eyelid drooping that occurs at birth or within the first year is    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ptosis - infants and children

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003035.htm

# Ptosis - infants and children

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Ptosis (eyelid drooping) in infants and children is when the upper eyelid is
lower than it should be. This may occur in one or both eyes. Eyelid drooping
that occurs at birth or within the first year is called congenital ptosis.

## Considerations

Ptosis in infants and children is often due to a problem with the muscle that
raises the eyelid. A nerve problem in the eyelid can also cause it to droop.

Ptosis may also occur due to other conditions. Some of these include:

    * Trauma at birth (such as from the use of forceps)
    * Eye movement disorders
    * Brain and nervous system problems
    * Eyelid tumors or growths

Eyelid drooping that occurs later in childhood or adulthood may have other
causes.

SYMPTOMS

Children with ptosis may tip their head back to see. They may raise their
eyebrows to try to move the eyelid up. You may notice:

    * Drooping of one or both eyelids
    * Increased tearing
    * Blocked vision (from severe eyelid drooping)

EXAMS AND TESTS

The health care provider will do a physical exam to determine the cause.

The provider also may do certain tests:

    * Slit-lamp examination
    * Ocular motility (eye movement) test
    * Visual field testing

Other tests may be done to check for diseases or illnesses that may be causing
ptosis.

TREATMENT

Eyelid lift surgery can repair drooping upper eyelids.

    * If vision is not affected, surgery can wait until age 3 to 4 when the child has grown a little bigger.
    * In severe cases, surgery is needed right away to prevent "lazy eye" (amblyopia).

The provider will also treat any eye problems from ptosis. Your child may need
to:

    * Wear an eye patch to strengthen vision in the weaker eye.
    * Wear special glasses to correct an uneven curve of the cornea that causes blurred visionÂ (astigmatism).

Children with mild ptosis should have regular eye exams to make sure amblyopia
does not develop.

Surgery works well to improve the look and function of the eye. Some children
need more than one surgery.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your provider if:

    * You notice your child has a drooping eyelid
    * One eyelid suddenly droops or closes

## Alternative Names

Blepharoptosis - children; Congenital ptosis; Eyelid drooping - children;
Eyelid drooping - amblyopia; Eyelid drooping - astigmatism

## Images

    * ![Ptosis - drooping of the eyelid](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1111t.jpg)Ptosis - drooping of the eyelid

## References

Dowling JJ, North KN, Goebel HH, Beggs AH. Congenital and other structural
myopathies. In: Darras BT, Jones HR, Ryan MM, DeVivo DC, eds. _Neuromuscular
Disorders of Infancy, Childhood, and Adolescence_. 2nd ed. Waltham, MA:
Elsevier Academic Press; 2015:chap 28.

Olitsky SE, Marsh JD. Abnormalities of the lids. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW,
Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_.
21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 642.

## Review Date 2/28/2019

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Photograph of an
eye](https://medlineplus.gov/images/eye-211610_640_thumb.jpg)Eyelid Disorders
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

