Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000781.htm    
                                Description: An oculoplastic procedure is a type of surgery done around the eyes. You may have this procedure to correct a medical problem or for cosmetic reasons.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Oculoplastic procedures

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000781.htm

# Oculoplastic procedures

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An oculoplastic procedure is a type of surgery done around the eyes. You may
have this procedure to correct a medical problem or for cosmetic reasons.

Oculoplastic procedures are done by eye doctors (ophthalmologists) who have
special training in plastic or reconstructive surgery.

## Conditions Treated

Oculoplastic procedures may be done on the:

    * Eyelids
    * Eye sockets
    * Eyebrows
    * Cheeks
    * Tear ducts
    * Face or forehead 

These procedures treat many conditions. These include:

    * Droopy upper eyelids (ptosis)
    * Eyelids that turn inward (entropion) or outward (ectropion)
    * Eye problems caused by thyroid disease, such as Graves disease
    * Skin cancers or other growths in or around the eyes
    * Weakness around the eyes or eyelids caused by Bell palsy
    * Tear duct problems
    * Injuries to the eye or eye area
    * Birth defects of the eyes or orbit (the bone around the eyeball)
    * Cosmetic problems, such as excess upper lid skin, bulging lower lids, and "fallen" eyebrows 

## Before Your Surgery

Your surgeon may give you some instructions to follow before your surgery. You
may need to:

    * Stop any medicines that thin your blood. Your surgeon will give you a list of these medicines. 
    * See your regular health care provider to have some routine tests and make sure it is safe for you to have surgery.
    * To aid with healing, stop smoking 2 to 3 weeks before and after surgery.
    * Arrange to have someone drive you home after surgery.

## What to Expect

For most procedures, you will be able to go home the same day you have
surgery. Your procedure may take place in a hospital, an outpatient facility,
or the provider's office.

Depending on your surgery, you may have local anesthesia or general
anesthesia. Local anesthesia numbs the surgical area so you do not feel any
pain. General anesthesia puts you to sleep during surgery.

During the procedure, your surgeon may place special contact lenses on your
eyes. These lenses help protect your eyes and shield them from the bright
lights of the surgical room.

## Self-care at Home

Your recovery will depend on your condition and the type of surgery you have.
Your provider will give you specific instructions to follow. Here are some
tips to keep in mind:

    * You may have some pain, bruising, or swelling after surgery. Place cold packs over the area to reduce swelling and bruising. To protect your eyes and skin, wrap the cold pack in a towel before applying it.
    * You may need to avoid activities that raise your blood pressure for about 3 weeks. This includes things such as exercise and lifting heavy objects. Your provider will tell you when it is safe to begin these activities again. 
    * DO NOT drink alcohol for at least 1 week after surgery. You may also need to stop certain medicines. 
    * You will need to be careful when bathing for at least a week after surgery. Your provider can give you instructions for bathing and cleaning the area around the incision.
    * Prop your head up with a few pillows to sleep for about 1 week after surgery. This will help prevent swelling.
    * You should see your provider for a follow-up visit within 7 days after your surgery. If you had stitches, you may have them removed at this visit. 
    * Most people are able to return to work and social activities about 2 weeks after surgery. The amount of time can vary, depending on the type of surgery you had. Your provider will give you specific instructions. 
    * You may notice increased tears, feeling more sensitive to light and wind, and blurring or double vision for the first few weeks.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider right away if you have:

    * Pain that does not go away after taking pain relievers
    * Signs of infection (an increase in swelling and redness, fluid draining from your eye or incision)
    * An incision that is not healing or is separating
    * Vision that gets worse

## Alternative Names

Eye surgery - oculoplastic

## References

Burkat CN, Kersten RC. Malposition of the eyelids. In: Mannis MJ, Holland EJ,
eds. _Cornea_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 27.

Fratila A, Kim YK. Blepharoplasty and brow-lift. In: Robinson JK, Hanke CW,
Siegel DM, Fratila A, Bhatia AC, Rohrer TE, eds. _Surgery of the Skin_. 3rd
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 40.

Nassif P, Griffin G. The aesthetic brow and forehead. In: Flint PW, Haughey
BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head and Neck Surgery_. 6th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 28.

Nikpoor N, Perez VL. Surgical ocular surface reconstruction. In: Yanoff M,
Duker JS, eds. _Ophthalmology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap
4.30.

## Review Date 9/30/2018

Updated by: Audrey Tai, DO, MS, Assistant Clinical Professor (Voluntary),
University of California - Irvine, Irvine, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Eyelid Disorders
    * Plastic and Cosmetic Surgery

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

