Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001008.htm    
                                Description: Entropion is the turning in of an edge of an eyelid. This causes the lashes to rub against the eye. It most often is seen on the lower eyelid.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Entropion

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001008.htm

# Entropion

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Entropion is the turning in of an edge of an eyelid. This causes the lashes to
rub against the eye. It most often is seen on the lower eyelid.

## Causes

Entropion can be present at birth (congenital).

In babies, it rarely causes problems because the lashes are very soft and do
not easily damage the eye. In older people, the condition is most often caused
by a spasm or weakening of the muscles surrounding the lower part of the eye.

Another cause can be trachoma infection, which can lead to scarring of the
inner side of the lid. This is rare in North America and Europe. However,
trachoma scarring is one of the three leading causes of blindness in the
world.

Risk factors for entropion are:

    * Aging
    * Chemical burn
    * Infection with trachoma 

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

    * Decreased vision if the cornea is damaged
    * Excessive tearing
    * Eye discomfort or pain
    * Eye irritation
    * Redness 

## Exams and Tests

In most cases, your health care provider can diagnose this condition by
looking at your eyelids. Special tests are not often necessary.

## Treatment

Artificial tears can keep the eye from becoming dry and may help you feel
better. Surgery to correct the position of the eyelids works well in most
cases.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outlook is most often good if the condition is treated before eye damage
occurs.

## Possible Complications

Dry eye and irritation may increase the risk for:

    * Corneal abrasions
    * Corneal ulcers
    * Eye infections

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * Your eyelids turn inward.
    * You constantly feel as though there is something in your eye.

If you have entropion, the following should be considered an emergency:

    * Decreasing vision
    * Light sensitivity
    * Pain
    * Eye redness that increases rapidly 

## Prevention

Most cases cannot be prevented. Treatment reduces the risk of complications.

See your provider if you have red eyes after visiting an area where there is
trachoma (such as North Africa or South Asia).

## Alternative Names

Eyelid - entropion; Eye pain - entropion; Tearing - entropion

## Images

    * ![Eye](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1094t.jpg)Eye

## References

Gigantelli JW. Entropion. In: Yanoff M, Duker JS, eds. _Ophthalmology_. 5th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 12.5.

Yanoff M, Cameron JD. Diseases of the visual system. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 423.

## Review Date 10/8/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Photograph of an
eye](https://medlineplus.gov/images/eye-211610_640_thumb.jpg)Eyelid Disorders
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

