Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000926.htm    
                                Description: Bipolar disorder is a mental condition in which a person has wide or extreme swings in their mood. Periods of feeling sad and depressed may alternate with periods of being very happy and active or being    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bipolar disorder

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000926.htm

# Bipolar disorder

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Bipolar disorder is a mental condition in which a person has wide or extreme
swings in their mood. Periods of feeling sad and depressed may alternate with
periods of being very happy and active or being cross or irritable.

![Bipolar disorder](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/17094.jpg)

## Causes

Bipolar disorder affects men and women equally. It most often starts between
ages 15 and 25. The exact cause is not known, but it occurs more often in
relatives of people with bipolar disorder.

In most people with bipolar disorder, there is no clear cause for the periods
(episodes) of extreme happiness and high activity or energy (mania) or
depression and low activity or energy (depression). The following may trigger
a manic episode:

    * Childbirth
    * Medicines, such as antidepressants or steroids
    * Periods of not being able to sleep (insomnia)
    * Recreational drug use 

## Symptoms

The manic phase may last from days to months. It may include these symptoms:

    * Easily distracted
    * Excess involvement in activities
    * Little need for sleep
    * Poor judgment
    * Poor temper control
    * Reckless behavior and lack of self-control, such as drinking, drug use, sex with many partners, gambling and spending sprees
    * Very irritable mood, racing thoughts, talking a lot, and false beliefs about self or abilities
    * Rapid speech
    * Concerns about things that are not true (delusions)Â 

The depressive episode may include these symptoms:

    * Daily low mood or sadness
    * Problems concentrating, remembering, or making decisions
    * Eating problems such as loss of appetite and weight loss, or overeating and weight gain
    * Fatigue or lack of energy
    * Feelings of worthlessness, hopelessness, or guilt
    * Loss of pleasure in activities once enjoyed
    * Loss of self-esteem
    * Thoughts of death or suicide
    * Trouble getting to sleep or sleeping too much
    * Pulling away from friends or activities that were once enjoyed 

People with bipolar disorder are at high risk forÂ suicide. They may use
alcohol or other substances. This can make the bipolar symptoms worse and
increase the risk for suicide.

Episodes of depression are more common than episodes of mania. The pattern is
not the same in all people with bipolar disorder:

    * Depression and mania symptoms may occur together. This is called a mixed state.
    * Symptoms may also occur right after each other. This is called rapid cycling. 

## Exams and Tests

To diagnose bipolar disorder, the health care provider may do some or all of
the following:

    * Ask whether other family members have bipolar disorder
    * Ask about your recent mood swings and for how long you have had them
    * Perform a thorough exam and order lab tests to look for other illnesses that may be causing symptoms that resemble bipolar disorder
    * Talk to family members about your symptoms and overall health
    * Ask about any health problems you have and any medicines you take
    * Watch your behavior and mood

## Treatment

The main goal of treatment is to:

    * Make the episodes less frequent and severe
    * Help you function well and enjoy your life at home and at work
    * Prevent self-injury and suicide 

MEDICINES

Medicines are a key part of treating bipolar disorder. Most often, the first
medicines used are called mood stabilizers. They help you avoid mood swings
and extreme changes in activity and energy levels.

With medicines, you may begin to feel better. However, for some people,
symptoms of mania may feel good. Some people have side effects from the
medicines. As a result, you may be tempted to stop taking your medicines or
change the way you are taking them. But stopping your medicines or taking them
in the wrong way can cause symptoms to come back or become much worse. DO NOT
stop taking or change the dosages of your medicines. Talk with your provider
if you have questions about your medicines.

Ask family members or friends to help you take medicines the right way. This
means taking the right dose at the right time. They can also help make sure
that episodes of mania and depression are treated as soon as possible.

If mood stabilizers do not help, your provider may suggest other medicines,
such as antipsychotics or antidepressants.

You will need regular visits with a psychiatrist to talk about your medicines
and their possible side effects. Blood tests are often needed, too.

OTHER TREATMENTS

Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) may be used to treat the manic or depressive
phase if it does not respond to medicine.

People who are in the middle of a severe manic or depressive episode may need
to stay in a hospital until they are stable and their behavior is under
control.

SUPPORT PROGRAMS AND TALK THERAPY

Joining a support group may help you and your loved ones. Involving family
members and caregivers in your treatment may help reduce the chance of
symptoms returning.

Important skills you may learn at such programs include how to:

    * Cope with symptoms that continue even while you are taking medicines
    * Get enough sleep and stay away from recreational drugs
    * Take medicines the right way and manage side effects
    * Watch for the return of symptoms, and know what to do when they return
    * Find out what triggers the episodes and avoid these triggers 

Talk therapy with a mental health provider may be helpful for people with
bipolar disorder.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Periods of depression or mania return in most people, even with treatment.
People may also have issues with alcohol or drug use. They may also have
problems with relationships, school, work, and finances.

Suicide is a very real risk during both mania and depression. People with
bipolar disorder who think or talk about suicide need emergency attention
right away.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Seek help right way if you:

    * Have symptoms of mania
    * Feel the urge to hurt yourself or others
    * Feel hopeless, scared, or overwhelmed
    * See things that are not really there
    * Feel you cannot leave the house
    * Are not able to care for yourself 

Call the treating provider if:

    * Symptoms are getting worse
    * You have side effects from medicines
    * You are not taking medicine the right way 

## Alternative Names

Manic depression; Bipolar affective disorder; Mood disorder - bipolar; Manic
depressive disorder

## Images

    * ![Bipolar disorder](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17094t.jpg)Bipolar disorder

## References

American Psychiatric Association. Bipolar and related disorders. In: American
Psychiatric Association. _Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental
Disorders_. 5th ed. Arlington, VA: American Psychiatric Publishing;
2013:123-154.

Perlis RH, Ostacher MJ. Bipolar disorder. In: Stern TA, Fava M, Wilens TE,
Rosenbaum JF, eds. _Massachusetts General Hospital Comprehensive Clinical
Psychiatry_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 30.

## Review Date 1/25/2020

Updated by: Ryan James Kimmel, MD, Medical Director of Hospital Psychiatry at
the University of Washington Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bipolar
Disorder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BipolarDisorder_thumb.jpg)Bipolar
Disorder _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

