Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000544.htm    
                                Description: Von Willebrand disease is the most common hereditary bleeding disorder.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Von Willebrand disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000544.htm

# Von Willebrand disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Von Willebrand disease is the most common hereditary bleeding disorder.

## Causes

Von Willebrand disease is caused by a deficiency of von Willebrand factor. Von
Willebrand factor helps blood platelets clump together and stick to the blood
vessel wall, which is necessary for normal blood clotting. There are several
types of von Willebrand disease.

A family history of a bleeding disorder is the primary risk factor.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

    * Abnormal menstrual bleeding
    * Bleeding of the gums
    * Bruising
    * Nosebleeds
    * Skin rash

 **Note:** Most women with heavy or prolonged menstrual bleeding do not have
von Willebrand disease.

## Exams and Tests

Von Willebrand disease may be hard to diagnose. Low von Willebrand factor
levels and bleeding do not always mean you have von Willebrand disease.

Tests that may be done to diagnose this disease include:

    * Bleeding time
    * Blood typing
    * Factor VIII level
    * Platelet function analysis
    * Platelet count
    * Ristocetin cofactor test
    * Von Willebrand factor specific tests 

## Treatment

Treatment may include DDAVP (desamino-8-arginine vasopressin), a medicine to
raise von Willebrand factor level and reduce the chances for bleeding.

However, DDAVP does not work for all types of von Willebrand disease. Tests
should be done to determine what type of von Willebrand you have. If you are
going to have surgery, your doctor may give you DDAVP before surgery to see if
your von Willebrand factor levels increase.

The drug Alphanate (antihemophilic factor) is approved to decrease bleeding in
people with the disease who must have surgery or any other invasive procedure.

Blood plasma or certain factor VIII preparations may also be used to decrease
bleeding.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Bleeding may decrease during pregnancy. Women who have this condition usually
do not have excessive bleeding during childbirth.

This disease is passed down through families. Genetic counseling may help
prospective parents understand the risk for their children.

## Possible Complications

Bleeding may occur after surgery or when you have a tooth pulled.

Aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) can make this
condition worse. DO NOT take these medicines without first talking to your
health care provider.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if bleeding occurs without reason.

If you have von Willebrand disease and are scheduled for surgery or are in an
accident, be sure you or your family tell the providers about your condition.

## Alternative Names

Bleeding disorder - von Willebrand

## Images

    * ![Blood clot formation](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19462t.jpg)Blood clot formation
    * ![Blood clots](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9326t.jpg)Blood clots

## References

Flood VH, Scott JP. Von Willebrand disease. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St.
Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 477.

James P, Rydz N. Structure, biology, and genetics of von Willebrand factor.
In: Hoffman R, Benz EJ, Silberstein LE, et al, eds. _Hematology: Basic
Principles and Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 138.

Nichols WL. Von Willebrand disease and hemorrhagic abnormalities of platelet
and vascular function. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 173.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Platelet
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PlateletDisorders_thumb.jpg)Platelet
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

