Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000582.htm    
                                Description: Congenital platelet function defects are conditions that prevent clotting elements in the blood, called platelets, from working as they should. Platelets help the blood clot. Congenital means present from    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Congenital platelet function defects

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000582.htm

# Congenital platelet function defects

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Congenital platelet function defects are conditions that prevent clotting
elements in the blood, called platelets, from working as they should.
Platelets help the blood clot. Congenital means present from birth.

## Causes

Congenital platelet function defects are bleeding disorders that cause reduced
platelet function.

Most of the time, people with these disorders have a family history of a
bleeding disorder, such as:

    * Bernard-Soulier syndrome occurs when platelets lack a substance that sticks to the walls of blood vessels. Platelets are typically large and of reduced number. This disorder may cause severe bleeding.
    * Glanzmann thrombasthenia is a condition caused by the lack of a protein needed for platelets to clump together. Platelets are typically of normal size and number. This disorder may also cause severe bleeding.
    * Platelet storage pool disorder (also called platelet secretion disorder) occurs when substances called granules inside platelets aren't stored or released properly. Granules help platelets function properly. This disorder causes easy bruising or bleeding.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

    * Excessive bleeding during and after surgery
    * Bleeding gums
    * Easy bruising
    * Heavy menstrual periods
    * Nosebleeds
    * Prolonged bleeding with small injuries 

## Exams and Tests

The following tests may be used to diagnose this condition:

    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * Partial thromboplastin time (PTT)
    * Platelet aggregation test
    * Prothrombin time (PT)
    * Platelet function analysis
    * Flow cytometry

You may need other tests. Your relatives may need to be tested.

## Treatment

There is no specific treatment for these disorders. However, your health care
provider will likely monitor your condition.

You may also need:

    * To avoid taking aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), such as ibuprofen and naproxen, because they can worsen bleeding symptoms.
    * Platelet transfusions, such as during surgery or dental procedures.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

There is no cure for congenital platelet function disorders. Most of the time,
treatment can control the bleeding.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Severe bleeding
    * Iron deficiency anemia in menstruating women 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You have bleeding or bruising and do not know the cause.
    * Bleeding does not respond to the usual method of control. 

## Prevention

A blood test can detect the gene responsible for the platelet defect. You may
wish to seek genetic counseling if you have a family history of this problem
and are considering having children.

## Alternative Names

Platelet storage pool disorder; Glanzmann's thrombasthenia; Bernard-Soulier
syndrome; Platelet function defects - congenital

## Images

    * ![Blood clot formation](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19462t.jpg)Blood clot formation
    * ![Blood clots](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9326t.jpg)Blood clots

## References

Arnold DM, Zeller MP, Smith JW, Nazy I. Diseases of platelet number: immune
thrombocytopenia, neonatal alloimmune thrombocytopenia, and posttransfusion
purpura. In: Hoffman R, Benz EJ, Silberstein LE, et al, eds. _Hematology:
Basic Principles and Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap
131.

Hall JE. Hemostasis and blood coagulation. In: Hall JE, ed. _Guyton and Hall
Textbook of Medical Physiology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 37.

Nichols WL. Von Willebrand disease and hemorrhagic abnormalities of platelet
and vascular function. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 173.

## Review Date 1/29/2019

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Platelet
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PlateletDisorders_thumb.jpg)Platelet
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

