Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000556.htm    
                                Description: Thrombocytopenia is any disorder in which there are not enough platelets. Platelets are cells in the blood that help the blood clot. A low platelet count makes bleeding more likely.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Drug-induced thrombocytopenia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000556.htm

# Drug-induced thrombocytopenia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Thrombocytopenia is any disorder in which there are not enough platelets.
Platelets are cells in the blood that help the blood clot. A low platelet
count makes bleeding more likely.

When medicines or drugs are the causes of a low platelet count, it is called
drug-induced thrombocytopenia.

## Causes

Drug-induced thrombocytopenia occurs when certain medicines destroy platelets
or interfere with the body's ability to make enough of them.

There are two types of drug-induced thrombocytopenia: immune and nonimmune.

If a medicine causes your body to produce antibodies, which seek and destroy
your platelets, the condition is called drug-induced immune thrombocytopenia.
Heparin, a blood thinner, is the most common cause of drug-induced immune
thrombocytopenia.

If a medicine prevents your bone marrow from making enough platelets, the
condition is called drug-induced nonimmune thrombocytopenia. Chemotherapy
drugs and a seizure medicine called valproic acid may lead to this problem.

Other medicines that cause drug-induced thrombocytopenia include:

    * Furosemide
    * Gold, used to treat arthritis
    * Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs)
    * Penicillin
    * Quinidine
    * Quinine
    * Ranitidine
    * Sulfonamides
    * Linezolid and other antibiotics
    * Statins

## Symptoms

Decreased platelets may cause:

    * Abnormal bleeding
    * Bleeding when you brush your teeth
    * Easy bruising
    * Pinpoint red spots on the skin (petechiae)

## Treatment

The first step is to stop using theÂ medicine thatÂ is causing the problem.

For people who have life-threatening bleeding, treatments may include:

    * Immunoglobulin therapy (IVIG) given through a vein
    * Plasma exchange (plasmapheresis)
    * Platelet transfusions
    * Corticosteroid medicine

## Possible Complications

Bleeding can be life threatening if it occurs in the brain or other organs.

A pregnant woman who has antibodies to platelets may pass the antibodies to
the baby in the womb.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your healthcare provider if you have unexplained bleeding or bruising and
are taking medicines, such as the ones mentioned above under Causes.

## Alternative Names

Drug-induced thrombocytopenia; Immune thrombocytopenia - drug

## Images

    * ![Blood clot formation](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19462t.jpg)Blood clot formation
    * ![Blood clots](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9326t.jpg)Blood clots

## References

Abrams CS. Thrombocytopenia. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 172.

Warkentin TE. Thrombocytopenia caused by platelet destruction, hypersplenism,
or hemodilution. In: Hoffman R, Benz EJ, Silberstein LE, et al, eds.
_Hematology: Basic Principles and Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 132.

## Review Date 5/22/2019

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Platelet
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PlateletDisorders_thumb.jpg)Platelet
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

