Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001305.htm    
                                Description: Glanzmann thrombasthenia is a rare disorder of blood platelets. Platelets are a part of the blood that aids in blood clotting.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Glanzmann thrombasthenia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001305.htm

# Glanzmann thrombasthenia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Glanzmann thrombasthenia is a rare disorder of blood platelets. Platelets are
a part of the blood that aids in blood clotting.

## Causes

Glanzmann thrombasthenia is caused by the lack of a protein that is normally
on the surface of platelets. This substance is needed for platelets to clump
together to form blood clots.

The condition is congenital, which means it is present from birth. There are
several genetic abnormalities that can cause the condition.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

    * Heavy bleeding during and after surgery
    * Bleeding gums
    * Bruising easily
    * Heavy menstrual bleeding
    * Nosebleeds that do not stop easily
    * Prolonged bleeding with minor injuries 

## Exams and Tests

The following tests may be used to diagnose this condition:

    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * Platelet aggregation tests
    * Platelet function analysis (PFA)
    * Prothrombin time (PT) and partial thromboplastin time (PTT) 

Other tests may be needed. Family members may also need to be tested.

## Treatment

There is no specific treatment for this disorder. Platelet transfusions may be
given to people who are having severe bleeding.

## Support Groups

The following organizations are good resources for information on Glanzmann
thrombasthenia:

    * Genetic and Rare Diseases Information Center (GARD) -- rarediseases.info.nih.gov/diseases/2478/glanzmann-thrombasthenia
    * National Organization for Rare Disorders (NORD) -- rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/glanzmann-thrombasthenia

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Glanzmann thrombasthenia is a lifelong condition, and there is no cure. You
should take special steps to try to avoid bleeding if you have this condition.

Anyone with a bleeding disorder should avoid taking aspirin and other
nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as ibuprofen and naproxen.
These drugs can prolong bleeding times by preventing platelets from clumping.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Severe bleeding
    * Iron deficiency anemia in menstruating women due to abnormally heavy bleeding 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if:

    * You have bleeding or bruising of an unknown cause
    * Bleeding does not stop after usual treatments 

## Prevention

Glanzmann thrombasthenia is an inherited condition. There is no known
prevention.

## Alternative Names

Glanzmann's disease; Thrombasthenia - Glanzmann

## References

Bhatt MD, Ho K, Chan AKC. Disorders of coagulation in the neonate. In: Hoffman
R, Benz EJ, Silberstein LE, et al, eds. _Hematology: Basic Principles and
Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 150.

Nichols WL. Von Willebrand disease and hemorrhagic abnormalities of platelet
and vascular function. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 173.

## Review Date 1/29/2019

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Platelet
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PlateletDisorders_thumb.jpg)Platelet
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

