Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003669.htm    
                                Description: The platelet aggregation blood test checks how well platelets, a part of blood, clump together and cause blood to clot.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Platelet aggregation test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003669.htm

# Platelet aggregation test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The platelet aggregation blood test checks how well platelets, a part of
blood, clump together and cause blood to clot.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

The laboratory specialist will look at how the platelets spread out in the
liquid part of the blood (plasma) and whether they form clumps after a certain
chemical or drug is added. When platelets clump together, the blood sample is
clearer. A machine measures the changes in cloudiness and prints a record of
the results.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Your health care provider may tell you to temporarily stop taking medicines
that may affect the test results. Be sure to tell your provider about all the
medicines you take. These include:

    * Antibiotics
    * Antihistamines
    * Antidepressants
    * Blood thinners, such as aspirin, that make it hard for the blood to clot
    * Nonsteroidal inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs)
    * Statin drugs for cholesterol 

Also tell your provider about any vitamins or herbal remedies you take.

DO NOT stop taking any medicine without first talking to your provider.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or bruising. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

Your provider may order this test if you have signs of a bleeding disorder or
a low platelet count. It may also be ordered if a member of your family is
known to have a bleeding disorder due to platelet dysfunction.

The test can help diagnose problems with platelet function. It may determine
whether the problem is due to your genes, another disorder, or a side effect
of medicine.

## Normal Results

The normal time it takes for platelets to clump depends on temperature, and
may vary from laboratory to laboratory.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or may test different specimens. Talk to your
provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Decreased platelet aggregation may be due to:

    * Autoimmune disorders that produce antibodies against platelets
    * Fibrin degradation products
    * Inherited platelet function defects
    * Medicines that block platelet aggregation
    * Bone marrow disorders
    * Uremia (a result of kidney failure)
    * Von Willebrand disease (a bleeding disorder)

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken. Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another, and from one side of the body to the
other. Taking blood from some people may be more difficult than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

Note: This test is often performed because a person has a bleeding problem.
Bleeding may be more of a risk for this person than for people without
bleeding problems.

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Platelet aggregation - blood; platelet aggregation,
hypercoagulable state - blood. In: Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory
Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2013:883-885.

Miller JL, Rao AK. Platelet disorders and von Willebrand disease. In:
McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by
Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 40.

Pai M. Laboratory evaluation of hemostatic and thrombotic disorders. In:
Hoffman R, Benz EJ, Silberstein LE, et al, eds.Â _Hematology: Basic Principles
and Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 129.

## Review Date 1/29/2019

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Platelet
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PlateletDisorders_thumb.jpg)Platelet
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

