Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000546.htm    
                                Description: Acquired platelet function defects are conditions that prevent clotting elements in the blood called platelets from working as they should. The term acquired means these conditions are not present at birth.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Acquired platelet function defect

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000546.htm

# Acquired platelet function defect

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Acquired platelet function defects are conditions that prevent clotting
elements in the blood called platelets from working as they should. The term
acquired means these conditions are not present at birth.

## Causes

Platelet disorders can affect the number of platelets, how well they function,
or both. A platelet disorder affects normal blood clotting.

Disorders that can cause problems in platelet function include:

    * Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpuraÂ (bleeding disorder in which the immune system destroys platelets)Â 
    * Chronic myelogenous leukemiaÂ (blood cancer that starts inside bone marrow)
    * Multiple myelomaÂ (blood cancer that starts in the plasma cells in the bone marrow)
    * Primary myelofibrosisÂ (bone marrow disorder in which the marrow is replaced by fibrous scar tissue)
    * Polycythemia veraÂ (bone marrow disease that leads to an abnormal increase in the number of blood cells)
    * Primary thrombocythemiaÂ (bone marrow disorder in which the marrow produces too many platelets)
    * Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpuraÂ (blood disorder that causes blood clots to form in small blood vessels)

Other causes include:

    * Kidney (renal) failure
    * Medicines such as aspirin, ibuprofen, other anti-inflammatory drugs, penicillin, phenothiazines, and prednisone (after long-term use)

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

    * Heavy menstrual periods or prolonged bleeding (more than 5 days each period)
    * Abnormal vaginal bleeding
    * Blood in the urine
    * Bleeding under the skin or into the muscles
    * Bruising easily or pinpoint red spots on the skin
    * Gastrointestinal bleeding resulting in bloody, dark black, or tarry bowel movements; or vomiting blood or material that looks like coffee grounds
    * Nosebleeds

## Exams and Tests

Tests that may done include:

    * Platelet function
    * Platelet count
    * PT and PTT

## Treatment

Treatment is aimed at fixing the cause of the problem:

    * Bone marrow disorders are often treated with platelet transfusions or removing platelets from the blood (platelet pheresis). 
    * Chemotherapy may be used to treat an underlying condition that is causing the problem.
    * Platelet function defects caused by kidney failure are treated with dialysis or medicines.
    * Platelet problems caused by a certain medicine are treated by stopping the drug.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most of the time, treating the cause of the problem corrects the defect.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Bleeding that does not stop easily
    * Anemia (due to excessive bleeding) 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if:

    * You have bleeding and do not know the cause
    * Your symptoms get worse
    * Your symptoms do not improve after you are treated for an acquired platelet function defect 

## Prevention

Using medicines as directed can reduce the risk of drug-related acquired
platelet function defects. Treating other disorders may also reduce the risk.
Some cases cannot be prevented.

## Alternative Names

Acquired qualitative platelet disorders; Acquired disorders of platelet
function

## Images

    * ![Blood clot formation](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19462t.jpg)Blood clot formation
    * ![Blood clots](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9326t.jpg)Blood clots

## References

Diz-Kucukkaya R, Lopez JA. Acquired disorders of platelet function. In:
Hoffman R, Benz EJ, Silberstein LE, et al, eds. _Hematology: Basic Principles
and Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 130.

Hall JE. Hemostasis and blood coagulation. In: Hall JE, ed. _Guyton and Hall
Textbook of Medical Physiology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 37.

Jobe SM, Di Paola J. Congenital and acquired disorders of platelet function
and number. In: Kitchens CS, Kessler CM, Konkle BA, Streiff MB, Garcia DA,
eds. _Consultative Hemostasis and Thrombosis_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2019:chap 9.

## Review Date 1/29/2019

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Platelet
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PlateletDisorders_thumb.jpg)Platelet
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

