Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000552.htm    
                                Description: Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) is a blood disorder in which platelet clumps form in small blood vessels. This leads to a low platelet count (thrombocytopenia).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000552.htm

# Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) is a blood disorder in which
platelet clumps form in small blood vessels. This leads to a low platelet
count (thrombocytopenia).

## Causes

This disease may be caused by problems with an enzyme (a type of protein) that
is involved in blood clotting. This enzyme is called ADAMTS13. Absence of this
enzyme results in platelet clumping. Platelets are a part of the blood that
aids in blood clotting.

As the platelets clump together, fewer platelets are available in the blood in
other parts of the body to help with clotting. This can lead to bleeding under
the skin.

In some cases, the disorder is passed down through families (inherited). In
these cases, people are born with naturally low levels of this enzyme.

This condition also may be caused by:

    * Cancer
    * Chemotherapy
    * Hematopoietic stem cell transplantation
    * HIV infection
    * Hormone replacement therapy and estrogens
    * Medicines (including ticlopidine, clopidogrel, quinine, and cyclosporine A)

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

    * Bleeding into the skin or mucus membranes
    * Confusion 
    * Fatigue, weakness
    * Fever
    * Headache
    * Pale skin color or yellowish skin color
    * Shortness of breath
    * Fast heart rate (over 100 beats per minute)

## Exams and Tests

Tests that may be ordered include:

    * ADAMTS 13 activity level
    * Bilirubin
    * Blood smear
    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * Creatinine level
    * Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) level
    * Platelet count
    * Urinalysis
    * Haptoglobin
    * Coombs test

## Treatment

You may have a treatment called plasma exchange. It removes your abnormal
plasma and replaces it with normal plasma from a healthy donor. Plasma is the
liquid part of blood that contains blood cells and platelets. Plasma exchange
also replaces the missing enzyme.

The procedure is done as follows:

    * First, you have your blood drawn as if donating blood.
    * As the blood is passed through a machine that separates blood into its different parts, the abnormal plasma is removed and your blood cells are saved.
    * Your blood cells are then combined with normal plasma from a donor, and then given back to you. 

This treatment is repeated daily until blood tests show improvement.

People who do not respond to this treatment or whose condition often returns
may need to:

    * Have surgery to remove their spleen
    * Get medicines that suppress the immune system, such as steroids or rituximab 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most people who undergo plasma exchange recover completely. But some people
die of this disease, especially if it is not diagnosed right away. In people
who do not recover, this condition can become long-term (chronic).

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Kidney failure
    * Low platelet count (thrombocytopenia)
    * Low red blood cell count (caused by the premature breakdown of red blood cells)
    * Nervous system problems
    * Severe bleeding (hemorrhage)
    * Stroke

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have any unexplained bleeding.

## Prevention

Because the cause is unknown, there is no known way to prevent this condition.

## Alternative Names

TTP

## Images

    * ![Blood cells](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9123t.jpg)Blood cells

## References

Abrams CS. Thrombocytopenia. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 172.

National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute website. Thrombotic thrombocytopenic
purpura. www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/thrombotic-thrombocytopenic-purpura.
Accessed March 1, 2019.

Schneidewend R, Epperla N, Friedman KD. Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura
and the hemolytic uremic syndrome. In: Hoffman R, Benz EJ, Silberstein LE, et
al, eds. _Hematology: Basic Principles and Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 134.

## Review Date 1/29/2019

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Platelet
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PlateletDisorders_thumb.jpg)Platelet
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

