Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003232.htm    
                                Description: Purpura is purple-colored spots and patches that occur on the skin, and in mucus membranes, including the lining of the mouth.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Purpura

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003232.htm

# Purpura

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Purpura is purple-colored spots and patches that occur on the skin, and in
mucus membranes, including the lining of the mouth.

## Considerations

Purpura occurs when small blood vessels leak blood under the skin.

Purpura measure between 4 and 10 mm (millimeters) in diameter. When purpura
spots are less than 4 mm in diameter, they are called petechiae. Purpura spots
larger than 1 cm (centimeter) are called ecchymoses.

Platelets help the blood clot. A person with purpura may have normal platelet
counts (non-thrombocytopenic purpuras) or low platelet counts
(thrombocytopenic purpuras).

## Causes

Non-thrombocytopenic purpuras may be due to:

    * Amyloidosis (disorder in which abnormal proteins build up in tissues and organs)
    * Blood clotting disorders
    * Congenital cytomegalovirus (condition in which an infant is infected with a virus called cytomegalovirus before birth)
    * Congenital rubella syndrome
    * Drugs that affect platelet function or clotting factors
    * Fragile blood vessels seen in older people (senile purpura)
    * Hemangioma (abnormal buildup of blood vessels in the skin or internal organs)
    * Inflammation of the blood vessels (vasculitis), such as Henoch-SchÃ¶nlein purpura, which causes a raised type of purpura
    * Pressure changes that occur during vaginal childbirth
    * Scurvy (vitamin C deficiency)
    * Steroid use
    * Certain infections
    * Injury 

Thrombocytopenic purpura may be due to:

    * Drugs that reduce the platelet count
    * Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) -- a bleeding disorder
    * Immune neonatal thrombocytopenia (can occur in infants whose mothers have ITP)
    * Meningococcemia (bloodstream infection) 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider for an appointment if you have signs of
purpura.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will examine your skin and ask about your medical history and
symptoms, including:

    * Is this the first time you have had such spots?
    * When did they develop?
    * What color are they?
    * Do they look like bruises?
    * What medicines do you take?
    * What other medical problems have you had?
    * Does anyone in your family have similar spots?
    * What other symptoms do you have?

A skin biopsy may be done. Blood and urine tests may be ordered to determine
the cause of the purpura.

## Alternative Names

Blood spots; Skin hemorrhages

## Images

    * ![Henoch-Schonlein purpura on the lower legs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1558t.jpg)Henoch-Schonlein purpura on the lower legs
    * ![Henoch-Schonlein purpura on an infant's foot](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2578t.jpg)Henoch-Schonlein purpura on an infant's foot
    * ![Henoch-Schonlein purpura on an infant's legs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2579t.jpg)Henoch-Schonlein purpura on an infant's legs
    * ![Henoch-Schonlein purpura on an infant's legs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2580t.jpg)Henoch-Schonlein purpura on an infant's legs
    * ![Henoch-Schonlein purpura on the legs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2581t.jpg)Henoch-Schonlein purpura on the legs
    * ![Meningococcemia on the calves](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2883t.jpg)Meningococcemia on the calves
    * ![Meningococcemia on the leg](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2884t.jpg)Meningococcemia on the leg
    * ![Rocky mountain spotted fever on the foot](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2888t.jpg)Rocky mountain spotted fever on the foot
    * ![Meningococcemia associated purpura](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2912t.jpg)Meningococcemia associated purpura

## References

Habif TP. Principles of diagnosis and anatomy. In: Habif TP, ed. _Clinical
Dermatology: A Color Guide to Diagnosis and Therapy_. 6th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 1.

Kitchens CS. Purpura and other hematovascular disorders. In: Kitchens CS,
Kessler CM, Konkle BA, Streiff MB, Garcia DA, eds. _Consultative Hemostasis
and Thrombosis_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 10.

## Review Date 4/16/2019

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Platelet
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PlateletDisorders_thumb.jpg)Platelet
Disorders _Read more_

![Skin
Conditions](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SkinConditions2_thumb.jpg)Skin
Conditions _Read more_

![Vasculitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Vasculitis_thumb.jpg)Vasculitis
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

