Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000535.htm    
                                Description: Immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) is a bleeding disorder in which the immune system destroys platelets, which are necessary for normal blood clotting. People with the disease have too few platelets    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP)

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000535.htm

# Immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP)

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) is a bleeding disorder in which the
immune system destroys platelets, which are necessary for normal blood
clotting. People with the disease have too few platelets in the blood.

## Causes

ITP occurs when certain immune system cells produce antibodies against
platelets. Platelets help your blood clot by clumping together to plug small
holes in damaged blood vessels.

The antibodies attach to the platelets. The body destroys the platelets that
carry the antibodies.

In children, the disease sometimes follows a viral infection. In adults, it is
more often a long-term (chronic) disease and can occur after a viral
infection, with use of certain drugs, during pregnancy, or as part of an
immune disorder.

ITP affects women more often than men. It is more common in children than
adults. In children, the disease affects boys and girls equally.

## Symptoms

ITP symptoms can include any of the following:

    * Abnormally heavy periods in women
    * Bleeding into the skin, often around the shins, causing a skin rash that looks like pinpoint red spots (petechial rash)
    * Easy bruising
    * Nosebleed or bleeding in the mouth

## Exams and Tests

Blood tests will be done to check your platelet count.

A bone marrow aspiration or biopsy may also be done.

## Treatment

In children, the disease usually goes away without treatment. Some children
may need treatment.

Adults are usually started on a steroid medicine called prednisone. In some
cases, surgery to remove the spleen (splenectomy) is recommended. This
increases the platelet count in about half of people. However, other drug
treatments are usually recommended instead.

If the disease does not get better with prednisone, other treatments may
include:

    * Medicine called danazol (Danocrine) taken by mouth
    * Infusions of high-dose gamma globulin (an immune factor)
    * Drugs that suppress the immune system
    * Anti-RhD therapy for people with certain blood types
    * Drugs that stimulate the bone marrow to make more platelets

People with ITP should not take aspirin, ibuprofen, or warfarin, because these
drugs interfere with platelet function or blood clotting, and bleeding may
occur.

## Support Groups

The following resources can provide more information on ITP:

    * National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute -- www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/immune-thrombocytopenia
    * National Organization for Rare Disorders -- rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/immune-thrombocytopenia

## Outlook (Prognosis)

With treatment, the chance of remission (a symptom-free period) is good. In
rare cases, ITP may become a long-term condition in adults and reappear, even
after a symptom-free period.

## Possible Complications

Sudden and severe loss of blood from the digestive tract may occur. Bleeding
into the brain may also occur.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Go to the emergency room or call the local emergency number (such as 911) if
severe bleeding occurs, or if other new symptoms develop.

## Alternative Names

ITP; Immune thrombocytopenia; Bleeding disorder - idiopathic thrombocytopenic
purpura; Bleeding disorder - ITP; Autoimmune - ITP; Low platelet count - ITP

## Images

    * ![Blood cells](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9123t.jpg)Blood cells

## References

Abrams CS. Thrombocytopenia. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 172.

Arnold DM, Zeller MP, Smith JW, Nazy I. Diseases of platelet number: Immune
thrombocytopenia, neonatal alloimmune thrombocytopenia, and posttransfusion
purpura. In: Hoffman R, Benz EJ, Silberstein LE, et al, eds. _Hematology:
Basic Principles and Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap
131.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Platelet
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PlateletDisorders_thumb.jpg)Platelet
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

