Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000586.htm    
                                Description: Thrombocytopenia is any disorder in which there is an abnormally low amount of platelets. Platelets are parts of the blood that help blood to clot. This condition is sometimes associated with abnormal    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Thrombocytopenia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000586.htm

# Thrombocytopenia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Thrombocytopenia is any disorder in which there is an abnormally low amount of
platelets. Platelets are parts of the blood that help blood to clot. This
condition is sometimes associated with abnormal bleeding.

## Causes

Thrombocytopenia is often divided into 3 major causes of low platelets:

    1. Not enough platelets are made in the bone marrow
    2. Increased breakdown of platelets in the bloodstream 
    3. Increased breakdown of platelets in the spleen or liver

Your bone marrow may not make enough platelets if you have any of the
following conditions:

    * Aplastic anemia (disorder in which the bone marrow does not make enough blood cells)
    * Cancer in the bone marrow, such as leukemia
    * Cirrhosis (liver scarring)
    * Folate deficiency
    * Infections in the bone marrow (very rare)
    * Myelodysplastic syndrome (bone marrow does not make enough blood cells or makes defective cells)
    * Vitamin B12 deficiency

Use of certain drugs may also lead to a low production of platelets in the
bone marrow. The most common example is chemotherapy treatment.

The following health conditions cause increased breakdown of platelets:

    * Disorder in which the proteins that control blood clotting become over active, most often during a serious illness (DIC)
    * Drug-induced low platelet count
    * Enlarged spleen
    * Disorder in which the immune system destroys platelets (ITP)
    * Disorder that causes blood clots to form in small blood vessels, causing a low platelet count (TTP)

## Symptoms

You may not have any symptoms. Or you may have general symptoms, such as:

    * Bleeding in the mouth and gums
    * Bruising
    * Nosebleeds 
    * Rash (pinpoint red spots called petechiae)

Other symptoms depend on the cause.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about your
medical history and symptoms. The following tests may be done:

    * Complete blood count (CBC) 
    * Blood clotting tests (PTT and PT) 

Other tests that may help diagnose this condition include bone marrow
aspiration or biopsy.

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the cause of the condition. In some cases, a transfusion
of platelets may be required to stop or prevent bleeding.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome depends on the disorder causing the low platelet counts.

## Possible Complications

Severe bleeding (hemorrhage) is the main complication. Bleeding may occur in
the brain or gastrointestinal tract.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you experience unexplained bleeding or bruising.

## Prevention

Prevention depends on the specific cause.

## Alternative Names

Low platelet count - thrombocytopenia

## References

Abrams CS. Thrombocytopenia. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 172.

Arnold DM, Zeller MP, Smith JW, Nazy I. Diseases of platelet number: immune
thrombocytopenia, neonatal alloimmune thrombocytopenia, and posttransfusion
purpura. In: Hoffman R, Benz EJ, Silberstein LE, et al, eds. _Hematology:
Basic Principles and Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap
131.

Warkentin TE. Thrombocytopenia caused by platelet destruction, hypersplenism,
or hemodilution. In: Hoffman R, Benz EJ, Silberstein LE, et al, eds.
_Hematology: Basic Principles and Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 132.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Platelet
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PlateletDisorders_thumb.jpg)Platelet
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

