Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000543.htm    
                                Description: Essential thrombocythemia (ET) is a condition in which the bone marrow produces too many platelets. Platelets are a part of the blood that aids in blood clotting.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Essential thrombocythemia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000543.htm

# Essential thrombocythemia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Essential thrombocythemia (ET) is a condition in which the bone marrow
produces too many platelets. Platelets are a part of the blood that aids in
blood clotting.

![Blood clotting](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200077t.gif)Watch
this video about:Blood clotting

## Causes

ET results from an overproduction of platelets. As these platelets do not work
normally, blood clots and bleeding are common problems. Untreated, ET worsens
over time.

ET is part of a group of conditions known as myeloproliferative disorders.
Others include:

    * Chronic myelogenous leukemia (cancer that starts in the bone marrow)
    * Polycythemia vera (bone marrow disease that leads to an abnormal increase in the number of blood cells)
    * Primary myelofibrosis (disorder of the bone marrow in which the marrow is replaced by fibrous scar tissue) 

Many people with ET have a mutation of a gene (JAK2, CALR, or MPL).

ET is most common in middle aged people. It can also be seen in younger
people, especially women under age 40.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of blood clots may include any of the following:

    * Headache (most common)
    * Tingling, coldness, or blueness in the hands and feet
    * Feeling dizzy or lightheaded
    * Vision problems
    * Mini-strokes (transient ischemic attacks) or stroke

If bleeding is a problem, symptoms may include any of the following:

    * Easy bruising and nosebleeds
    * Bleeding from the gastrointestinal tract,Â respiratoryÂ system, urinary tract, or skin
    * Bleeding from the gums
    * Prolonged bleeding from surgical procedures or tooth removal

## Exams and Tests

Most of the time, ET is found through blood tests done for other health
problems before symptoms appear.

Your health care provider may notice an enlarged liver or spleen on physical
examination. You may also have abnormal blood flow in the toes or feet that
causes skin damage in these areas.

Other tests may include:

    * Bone marrow biopsy
    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * Genetic tests (to look for a change in the JAK2, CALR, or MPL gene)
    * Uric acid level

## Treatment

If you have life-threatening complications, you may have a treatment called
platelet pheresis. It quickly reduces platelets in the blood.

Long-term, medicines are used to decrease the platelet count to avoid
complications. The most common medicines used include hydroxyurea, interferon-
alpha, or anagrelide. In some people with a JAK2 mutation, specific inhibitors
of the JAK2 protein may be used.

In people who are at a high risk of clotting, aspirin at a low dose (81 to 100
mg per day) may decreaseÂ clotting episodes.

Many people do not need any treatment, but they must be followed closely by
their provider.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Outcomes may vary. Most people can go for long periods without complications
and have a normal lifespan. In a small number of people, complications from
bleeding and blood clots can cause serious problems.

In rare cases, the disease can change into acute leukemia or myelofibrosis.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Acute leukemia or myelofibrosis
    * Severe bleeding (hemorrhage)
    * Stroke, heart attack, or blood clots in the hands or feet

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:  

    * You have unexplained bleeding that continues longer than it should.
    * You notice chest pain, leg pain, confusion, weakness, numbness, or other new symptoms. 

## Alternative Names

Primary thrombocythemia; Essential thrombocytosis

## Images

    * ![Blood cells](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9123t.jpg)Blood cells

## References

Mascarenhas J, Iancu-Rubin C, Kremyanskaya M, Najfeld V, Hoffman R. Essential
thrombocythemia. In: Hoffman R, Benz EJ, Silberstein LE, et al, eds.
_Hematology: Basic Principles and Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 69.

Tefferi A. Polycythemia vera, essential thrombocythemia, and primary
myelofibrosis. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 166.

## Review Date 1/29/2019

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Platelet
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PlateletDisorders_thumb.jpg)Platelet
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

