Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001058.htm    
                                Description: Malocclusion means the teeth are not aligned properly.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Malocclusion of teeth

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001058.htm

# Malocclusion of teeth

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Malocclusion means the teeth are not aligned properly.

## Causes

Occlusion refers to the alignment of teeth and the way that the upper and
lower teeth fit together (bite). The upper teeth should fit slightly over the
lower teeth. The points of the molars should fit the grooves of the opposite
molar.

The upper teeth keep you from biting your cheeks and lips, and your lower
teeth protect your tongue.

Malocclusion is most often hereditary. This means it is passed down through
families. It may be caused by a difference between the size of the upper and
lower jaws or between the jaw and tooth size. It causes tooth overcrowding or
abnormal bite patterns. The shape of the jaws or birth defects such as cleft
lip and palate may also be reasons for malocclusion.

Other causes include:

    * Childhood habits such as thumb sucking, tongue thrusting, pacifier use beyond age 3, and prolonged use of a bottle
    * Extra teeth, lost teeth, impacted teeth, or abnormally shaped teeth
    * Ill-fitting dental fillings, crowns, dental appliances, retainers, or braces
    * Misalignment of jaw fractures after a severe injury
    * Tumors of the mouth and jaw

There are different categories of malocclusion:

    * Class 1 malocclusion is the most common. The bite is normal, but the upper teeth slightly overlap the lower teeth.
    * Class 2 malocclusion, called retrognathism or overbite, occurs when the upper jaw and teeth severely overlap the bottom jaw and teeth.
    * Class 3 malocclusion, called prognathism or underbite, occurs when the lower jaw protrudes or juts forward, causing the lower jaw and teeth to overlap the upper jaw and teeth. 

## Symptoms

Symptoms of malocclusion are:

    * Abnormal alignment of teeth
    * Abnormal appearance of the face
    * Difficulty or discomfort when biting or chewing
    * Speech difficulties (rare), including lisp
    * Mouth breathing (breathing through the mouth without closing the lips)
    * Inability to bite into food correctly (open bite)

## Exams and Tests

Most problems with teeth alignment are discovered by a dentist during a
routine exam. Your dentist may pull your cheek outward and ask you to bite
down to check how well your back teeth come together. If there is any problem,
your dentist may refer you to an orthodontist for diagnosis and treatment.

You may need to have dental x-rays, head or skull x-rays, or facial x-rays.
Diagnostic models of the teeth are often needed to diagnose the problem.

## Treatment

Very few people have perfect teeth alignment. However, most problems are minor
and do not require treatment.

Malocclusion is the most common reason for referral to an orthodontist.

The goal of treatment is to correct the positioning of the teeth. Correcting
moderate or severe malocclusion can:

    * Make teeth easier to clean andÂ decrease risk of tooth decay and periodontal diseases (gingivitis or periodontitis). 
    * Eliminate strain on the teeth, jaws, and muscles. This lessens the risk of breaking a tooth and may reduce symptoms of temporomandibular joint disorders (TMJ).

Treatments may include:

    * Braces or other appliances: Metal bands are placed around some teeth, or metal, ceramic, or plastic bonds are attached to the surface of the teeth. Wires or springs apply force to the teeth. Clear braces (aligners) without wires may be used in some people.
    * Removal of one or more teeth: This may be needed if overcrowding is part of the problem.
    * Repair of rough or irregular teeth: Teeth may be adjusted down, reshaped, and bonded or capped. Misshapen restorations and dental appliances should be repaired.
    * Surgery: Surgical reshaping to lengthen or shorten the jaw is needed in rare cases. Wires, plates, or screws may be used to stabilize the jaw bone. 

It is important to brush and floss your teeth every day and have regular
visits to a general dentist. Plaque builds up on braces and may permanently
mark teeth or cause tooth decay if it is not properly removed.

You will need a retainer to stabilize your teeth after having braces.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Problems with teeth alignment are easier, quicker, and less expensive to treat
when they are corrected early. Treatment works best in children and
adolescents because their bones are still soft and teeth are moved more
easily. Treatment may last 6 months to 2 or more years. The time will depend
on how much correction is needed.

Treatment of orthodontic disorders in adults is often successful, but may
require longer use of braces or other devices.

## Possible Complications

Complications of malocclusion include:

    * Tooth decay
    * Discomfort during treatment
    * Irritation of mouth and gums (gingivitis) caused by appliances
    * Chewing or speaking difficulty during treatment

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your dentist if toothache, mouth pain, or other new symptoms develop
during orthodontic treatment.

## Prevention

Many types of malocclusion are not preventable. It may be necessary to control
habits such as thumb sucking or tongue thrusting (pushing your tongue forward
between your upper and lower teeth). Finding and treating the problem early
allows for quicker results and more success.

## Alternative Names

Crowded teeth; Misaligned teeth; Crossbite; Overbite; Underbite; Open bite

## Images

    * ![Prognathism](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17265t.jpg)Prognathism
    * ![Teeth, adult - in the skull](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1765t.jpg)Teeth, adult - in the skull
    * ![Malocclusion of teeth](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8500t.jpg)Malocclusion of teeth
    * ![Dental anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9445t.jpg)Dental anatomy

## References

Dean JA. Managing the developing occlusion. In: Dean JA, ed. _McDonald and
Avery's Dentistry for the Child and Adolescent_. 10th ed. St Louis, MO:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 22.

Tinanoff N. Malocclusion. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF,
eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 309.

## Review Date 2/5/2018

Updated by: Ilona Fotek, DMD, MS, Dental Healing Arts, Jupiter, FL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Jaw Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/JawInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Jaw
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![Orthodontia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Orthodontia_thumb.jpg)Orthodontia
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

