Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003063.htm    
                                Description: Widely spaced teeth can be a temporary condition related to normal growth and development of adult teeth. Wide spacing can also occur as a result of several diseases or continued growth of the jawbone.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Widely spaced teeth

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003063.htm

# Widely spaced teeth

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Widely spaced teeth can be a temporary condition related to normal growth and
development of adult teeth. Wide spacing can also occur as a result of several
diseases or continued growth of the jawbone.

## Causes

Some diseases and conditions that can cause widely spaced teeth are:

    * Acromegaly
    * Ellis-van Creveld syndrome
    * Injury
    * Morquio syndrome
    * Normal growth (temporary widening)
    * Possible gum disease
    * Sanfilippo syndrome
    * Tooth shifting due to gum disease or missing teeth
    * Large frenum

## Home Care

Ask your dentist if braces can help if the appearance bothers you. Some dental
restorations like crowns, bridges, or implants may help improve the appearance
and function of teeth.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if:

    * Your child's teeth or jaws appear to be developing abnormally
    * Other health symptoms accompany the appearance of widely spaced teeth 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The dentist will examine the mouth, teeth, and gums. Other tests that may be
done include:

    * Dental x-rays
    * Facial or skull x-rays

## Alternative Names

Teeth - widely spaced

## References

Neville BW, Damm DD, Allen CM, Chi AC. Abnormalities of teeth. In: Neville BW,
Damm DD, Allen CM, Chi AC, eds. _Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology_. 4th ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2016:chap 2.

Tinanoff N. Development and developmental anomalies of the teeth. In: Kliegman
RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_.
20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 307.

## Review Date 2/5/2018

Updated by: Ilona Fotek, DMD, MS, Dental Healing Arts, Jupiter, FL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Orthodontia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Orthodontia_thumb.jpg)Orthodontia
_Read more_

![Tooth
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ToothDisorders_thumb.jpg)Tooth
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

