Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000132.htm    
                                Description: A pulmonary embolus is a blockage of an artery in the lungs. The most common cause of the blockage is a blood clot.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pulmonary embolus

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000132.htm

# Pulmonary embolus

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A pulmonary embolus is a blockage of an artery in the lungs. The most common
cause of the blockage is a blood clot.

## Causes

A pulmonary embolus is most often caused by a blood clot that develops in a
vein outside the lungs. The most common blood clot is one in a deep vein of
the thigh or in the pelvis (hip area). This type of clot is called a deep vein
thrombosis (DVT). The blood clot breaks off and travels to the lungs where it
lodges.

Less common causes include air bubbles, fat droplets, amniotic fluid, or
clumps of parasites or tumor cells.

You are more likely to get this condition if you or your family has a history
of blood clots or certain clotting disorders. A pulmonary embolus may occur:

    * After childbirth
    * After heart attack, heart surgery, or stroke
    * After severe injuries, burns, or fractures of the hips or thigh bone
    * After surgery, most commonly bone, joint, or brain surgery
    * During or after a long plane or car ride
    * If you have cancer
    * If you take birth control pills or estrogen therapy
    * Long-term bed rest or staying in one position for a long time

Disorders that may lead to blood clots include:

    * Diseases of the immune system that make it harder for the blood to clot.
    * Inherited disorders that make the blood more likely to clot. One such disorder is antithrombin III deficiency.

## Symptoms

Main symptoms of a pulmonary embolismÂ include chest pain that may be any of
the following:

    * Under the breastbone or on one side
    * Sharp or stabbing
    * Burning, aching, or a dull, heavy sensation
    * Often gets worse with deep breathing
    * You may bend over or hold your chest in response to the pain

Other symptoms may include:

    * Dizziness, lightheadedness, or fainting
    * Low oxygen level in blood (hypoxemia)
    * Fast breathing or wheezing
    * Fast heart rate
    * Feeling anxious
    * Leg pain, redness, or swelling
    * Low blood pressure
    * Sudden cough, possibly coughing up blood or bloody mucus
    * Shortness of breath that starts suddenlyÂ during sleep or on exertion
    * Low grade fever
    * Bluish skin (cyanosis) -- less common

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about your
symptoms and medical history.

The following lab tests may be done to see how well your lungs are working:

    * Arterial blood gases
    * Pulse oximetry 

The following imaging tests can help determine where the blood clot is
located:

    * Chest x-ray
    * CT angiogram of the chest
    * Pulmonary ventilation/perfusion scan, also called a V/Q scan
    * CT pulmonary angiogram

Other tests that may be done include:

    * Chest CT scan
    * D-dimer blood test
    * Doppler ultrasound exam of the legs
    * Echocardiogram
    * ECG

Blood tests may be done to check if you have an increased chance of blood
clotting, including:

    * Antiphospholipid antibodies
    * Genetic testing to look for changes that make you more likely to develop blood clots
    * Lupus anticoagulant
    * Protein C and protein S levels

## Treatment

A pulmonary embolus requires treatment right away. You may need to stay in the
hospital:

    * You will receive medicines to thin the blood andÂ make it less likely your blood will form more clots.
    * In cases of severe, life-threatening pulmonary embolism, treatment may involve dissolving the clot. This is called thrombolytic therapy. You will receive medicines to dissolve the clot. 

Whether or not you need to stay in the hospital, you will likely need to take
medicines at home to thin the blood:

    * You may be given pills to take or you may need to give yourself injections.
    * For some medicines, you will need blood tests to monitor your dosage.
    * How long you need to take these medicines depends mostly on the cause and size of your blood clot.
    * Your provider will talk to you about the risk of bleeding problems when you take these medicines.

If you cannot take blood thinners, your provider may suggest surgery to place
a device called an inferior vena cava filter (IVC filter). This device is
placed in the main vein in your belly. It keeps large clots from traveling
into the blood vessels of the lungs. Sometimes, a temporary filter can be
placed and removed later.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well a person recovers from a pulmonary embolus can be hard to predict. It
often depends on:

    * What caused the problem in the first place (for example, cancer, major surgery, or an injury)
    * The size of the blood clot in the lungs
    * IfÂ the blood clot dissolves over time

Some people can develop long-term heart and lung problems.

Death is possible in people with a severe pulmonary embolism.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Go to the emergency room or call the local emergency number (such as 911), if
you have symptoms of pulmonary embolus.

## Prevention

Blood thinners may be prescribed to help prevent DVT in people at high risk,
or those who are undergoing high-risk surgery.

If you had a DVT, your provider will prescribe pressure stockings. Wear them
as instructed. They will improve blood flow in your legs and reduce your risk
for blood clots.

Moving your legs often during long plane trips, car trips, and other
situations in which you are sitting or lying down for long periods can also
help prevent DVT. People at very high risk for blood clots may need shots of a
blood thinner called heparin when they take a flight that lasts longer than 4
hours.

Do not smoke. If you smoke, quit. Women who are taking estrogen must stop
smoking.Â Smoking increases your risk of developing blood clots.

## Alternative Names

Venous thromboembolism; Lung blood clot; Blood clot - lung; Embolus; Tumor
embolus; Embolism - pulmonary; DVT - pulmonary embolism; Thrombosis -
pulmonary embolism; Pulmonary thromboembolism; PE

## Patient Instructions

    * Deep vein thrombosis - discharge
    * Taking warfarin (Coumadin, Jantoven) - what to ask your doctor
    * Taking warfarin (Coumadin)

## Images

    * ![Lungs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1103t.jpg)Lungs
    * ![Respiratory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9248t.jpg)Respiratory system
    * ![Pulmonary embolus](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9798t.jpg)Pulmonary embolus

## References

Goldhaber SZ. Pulmonary embolism. In: Mann DL, Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO,
Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular
Medicine_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 73.

Kline JA. Pulmonary embolism and deep vein thrombosis. In: Walls RM,
Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and
Clinical Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 78.

Morris TA, Fedullo PF. Pulmonary thromboembolism. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ,
Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_.
6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 57.

## Review Date 10/21/2017

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Pulmonary
Embolism](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PulmonaryEmbolism_thumb.jpg)Pulmonary
Embolism _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

