Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003073.htm    
                                Description: Coughing up blood is the spitting up of blood or bloody mucus from the lungs and throat (respiratory tract).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Coughing up blood

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003073.htm

# Coughing up blood

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Coughing up blood is the spitting up of blood or bloody mucus from the lungs
and throat (respiratory tract).

Hemoptysis is the medical term for coughing up blood from the respiratory
tract.

## Considerations

Coughing up blood is not the same as bleeding from the mouth, throat, or
gastrointestinal tract.

Blood that comes up with a cough often looks bubbly because it is mixed with
air and mucus. It is most often bright red, although it may be rust-colored.
Sometimes the mucus contains only streaks of blood.

The outlook depends on what is causing the problem. Most people do well with
treatment to treat the symptoms and the underlying disease. People with severe
hemoptysis may die.

## Causes

A number of conditions, diseases, and medical tests may make you cough up
blood. These include:

    * Blood clot in the lung 
    * Breathing food or other material into the lungs (pulmonary aspiration) 
    * Bronchoscopy with biopsy 
    * Bronchiectasis
    * Bronchitis
    * Lung cancer
    * Cystic fibrosis
    * Inflammation of the blood vessels in the lung (vasculitis)
    * Injury to the arteries of the lungs
    * Irritation of the throat from violent coughing (small amounts of blood)
    * Pneumonia or other lung infections
    * Pulmonary edema
    * Systemic lupus erythematosus
    * Tuberculosis
    * Very thin blood (from blood thinning medicines, most often at higher than recommended levels)

## Home Care

Medicines that stop coughing (cough suppressants) may help if the problem
comes from heavy coughing. These medicines may lead to airway blockages, so
check with your health care provider before using them.

Keep track of how long you cough up blood, and how much blood is mixed with
the mucus. Call your provider any time you cough up blood, even if you do not
have any other symptoms.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Get medical help right away if you cough up blood and have:

    * A cough that produces more than a few teaspoons of blood
    * Blood in your urine or stools
    * Chest pain
    * Dizziness
    * Fever
    * Lightheadedness
    * Severe shortness of breath 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

In an emergency, your provider will give you treatments to control your
condition. The provider will then ask you questions about your cough, such as:

    * How much blood are you coughing up? Are you coughing up large amounts of blood at a time?
    * Do you have blood-streaked mucus (phlegm)?
    * How many times have you coughed up blood and how often does it happen?
    * How long has the problem been going on? Is it worse at some times such as at night?
    * What other symptoms do you have? 

The provider will do a complete physical exam and check your chest and lungs.
Tests that may be done include:

    * Bronchoscopy, a test to view the airways
    * Chest CT scan
    * Chest x-ray
    * Complete blood count
    * Lung biopsy
    * Lung scan
    * Pulmonary arteriography
    * Sputum culture and smear
    * Test to see if the blood clots normally, such as PT or PTT

## Alternative Names

Hemoptysis; Spitting up blood; Bloody sputum

## References

Brown CA. Hemoptysis. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds.
_Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 21.

Swartz MH. The chest. In: Swartz MH, ed. _Textbook of Physical Diagnosis_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 10.

## Review Date 3/26/2019

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Bleeding _Read
more_

![Cough](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cough_thumb.jpg)Cough _Read more_

![Esophagus](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EsopagusDisordersandEsophagealCancer_thumb.jpg)Esophageal
Cancer _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

