Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007403.htm    
                                Description: After a mastectomy, some women choose to have cosmetic surgery to remake their breast. This type of surgery is called breast reconstruction. It can be performed at the same time as mastectomy (immediate    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Breast reconstruction - implants

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007403.htm

# Breast reconstruction - implants

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

After a mastectomy, some women choose to have cosmetic surgery to remake their
breast. This type of surgery is called breast reconstruction. It can be
performed at the same time as mastectomy (immediate reconstruction) or later
(delayed reconstruction).

The breast is usually reshaped in two stages, or surgeries. During the first
stage, a tissue expander is used. An implant is placed during the second
stage. Sometimes, the implant is inserted in the first stage.

## Description

If you are having reconstruction at the same time as your mastectomy, your
surgeon may do either of the following:

    * Skin-sparing mastectomy -- This means only the area around your nipple and areola is removed. 
    * Nipple-sparing mastectomy -- This means all of the skin, the nipple, and areola are kept.

In either case, skin is left to make reconstruction easier.

If you will have breast reconstruction later, your surgeon will remove enough
skin over your breast during the mastectomy to be able to close the skin
flaps.

Breast reconstruction with implants is usually done in two stages, or
surgeries. During the surgeries, you will receive general anesthesia. This is
medicine that keeps you asleep and pain-free.

In the first stage:

    * The surgeon creates a pouch under your chest muscle.
    * A small tissue expander is placed in the pouch. The expander is balloon-like and made of silicone.
    * A valve is placed below the skin of the breast. The valve is connected by a tube to the expander. (The tube stays below the skin in your breast area.)
    * Your chest still looks flat right after this surgery.
    * Starting about 2 to 3 weeks after surgery, you see your surgeon every 1 or 2 weeks. During these visits, your surgeon injects a small amount of saline (salt water) through the valve into the expander.
    * Over time, the expander slowly enlarges the pouch in your chest to the right size for the surgeon to place an implant.
    * When it reaches the right size, you will wait 1 to 3 months before the permanent breast implant is placed during the second stage. 

In the second stage:

    * The surgeon removes the tissue expander from your chest and replaces it with a breast implant. This surgery takes 1 to 2 hours.
    * Before this surgery, you will have talked with your surgeon about the different kinds of breast implants. Implants may be filled with either saline or a silicone gel. 

You may have another minor procedure later that remakes the nipple and areola
area.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

You and your doctor will decide together about whether to have breast
reconstruction, and when to have it.

Having breast reconstruction does not make it harder to find a tumor if your
breast cancer comes back.

Getting breast implants does not take as long as breast reconstruction that
uses your own tissue. You will also have fewer scars. But, the size, fullness,
and shape of the new breasts are more natural with reconstruction that uses
your own tissue.

Many women choose not to have breast reconstruction or implants. They may use
a prosthesis (an artificial breast) in their bra that gives them a natural
shape, or they may choose to use nothing at all.

## Risks

Risks of anesthesia and surgery in general are:

    * Reactions to medicines
    * Breathing problems
    * Bleeding, blood clots, or infection 

Risks of breast reconstruction with implants are:

    * The implant may break or leak. If this happens, you will need more surgery.
    * A scar may form around the implant in your breast. If the scar becomes tight, your breast may feel hard and cause pain or discomfort. This is called capsular contracture. You will need more surgery if this happens.
    * Infection soon after surgery. You will need to have the expander or the implant removed.
    * Breast implants can shift. This will cause a change in the shape of your breast.
    * One breast may be larger than the other (asymmetry of the breasts).
    * You may have a loss of sensation around the nipple and areola. 

## Before the Procedure

Tell your surgeon if you are taking any drugs, supplements, or herbs you
bought without a prescription.

During the week before your surgery:

    * You may be asked to stop taking blood thinning medicines. These include aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), vitamin E, clopidogrel (Plavix), warfarin (Coumadin, Jantoven), and others.
    * Ask your surgeon which drugs you should still take on the day of surgery.
    * If you smoke, try to stop. Smoking slows recovery and increases the risk for problems. Ask your health care provider for help quitting. 

On the day of your surgery:

    * Follow instructions about not eating or drinking and about showering before you go to the hospital.
    * Take the drugs your surgeon told you to take with a small sip of water.
    * Arrive at the hospital on time. 

## After the Procedure

You may be able to go home the same day as the surgery. Or, you will need to
stay in the hospital overnight.

You may still have drains in your chest when you go home. Your surgeon will
remove them later during an office visit. You may have pain around your cuts
after surgery. Follow instructions about taking pain medicine.

Fluid may collect under the incision. This is called a seroma. It is fairly
common. A seroma may go away on its own. If it does not go away, it may need
to be drained by the surgeon during an office visit.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Results of this surgery are usually very good. It is nearly impossible to make
a reconstructed breast look exactly the same as the remaining natural breast.
You may need more "touch up" procedures to get the result you want.

Reconstruction will not restore normal sensation to the breast or the new
nipple.

Having cosmetic surgery after breast cancer can improve your sense of well-
being and your quality of life.

## Alternative Names

Breast implants surgery; Mastectomy - breast reconstruction with implants;
Breast cancer - breast reconstruction with implants

## Patient Instructions

    * Cosmetic breast surgery - discharge
    * Mastectomy and breast reconstruction - what to ask your doctor
    * Mastectomy - discharge 

## References

Burke MS, Schimpf DK. Breast reconstruction after breast cancer treatment:
goals, options, and reasoning. In: Cameron JL, Cameron AM, eds. _Current
Surgical Therapy_. 12th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:743-748.

Powers KL, Phillips LG. Breast reconstruction. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp
RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery: The Biological
Basis of Modern Surgical Practice_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 35.

## Review Date 3/12/2019

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Breast
Reconstruction](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BreastReconstruction2_thumb.jpg)Breast
Reconstruction _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

