Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000253.htm    
                                Description: You may be having a mastectomy. This is surgery to remove your breast. Most often, a mastectomy is done to treat breast cancer. Sometimes, it is done to prevent cancer in women who have a high risk of    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Mastectomy and breast reconstruction - what to ask your doctor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000253.htm

# Mastectomy and breast reconstruction - what to ask your doctor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You may be having a mastectomy. This is surgery to remove your breast. Most
often, a mastectomy is done to treat breast cancer. Sometimes, it is done to
prevent cancer in women who have a high risk of getting breast cancer in the
future. You may also have breast reconstruction. This is surgery to create a
new breast after mastectomy.

Below are questions you may want to ask your health care provider about
mastectomy and breast reconstruction.

## Questions

What is the best treatment for my type of breast cancer?

    * Do I need to have surgery or will other treatments work? Do I have a choice of what type of surgery to have?
    * What types of cancer treatment will I need before or after surgery? Will these treatments be different depending on the type of surgery I have?
    * Will one type of breast surgery work better for my breast cancer?
    * Will I need to have radiation therapy?
    * Will I need to have chemotherapy?
    * Will I need to have hormonal (anti-estrogen) therapy?
    * What is my risk of getting cancer in the other breast?
    * Should I have my other breast removed? 

What are the different types of mastectomy?

    * How is the scar different with these surgeries?
    * Is there a difference in how much pain I will have afterward?
    * Is there a difference in how long it will take to get better?
    * Will any of my chest muscles be removed?
    * Will any lymph nodes under my arm be removed? 

What are the risks of the type of mastectomy I will have?

    * Will I have shoulder pain?
    * Will I have swelling in my arm?
    * Will I be able to do the work and sports activities that I want to?
    * For which of my medical problems (such as diabetes, heart disease, or high blood pressure) do I need to see my primary care provider before my surgery? 

Can I have surgery to create a new breast after my mastectomy (breast
reconstruction)?

    * What is the difference between natural tissue and implants? Which choice will look more like a natural breast?
    * Can I have breast reconstruction during the same surgery as my mastectomy? If not, how long do I need to wait?
    * Will I have a nipple also?
    * Will I have feeling in my new breast?
    * What are the risks of each type of breast reconstruction?
    * If I do not have reconstruction, what are my options? Can I wear a prosthesis? 

How can I get my home ready before I even go to the hospital?

    * How much help will I need when I come home? Will I be able to get out of bed without help?
    * How do I make sure my home will be safe for me?
    * What type of supplies will I need when I get home?
    * Do I need to rearrange my home? 

How can I prepare myself emotionally for the surgery? What types of feelings
can I expect to have? Can I talk with people who have had a mastectomy?

What medicines should I take the day of the surgery? Are there any medicines I
should not take on the day of the surgery?

What will the surgery and my stay in the hospital be like?

    * How long will the surgery last?
    * What type of anesthesia will be used? Are there choices to consider?
    * Will I be in a lot of pain after surgery? If so, what will be done to relieve the pain?
    * How soon will I be getting up and moving around? 

What will it be like when I go home?

    * What will my wound be like? How do I take care of it? When can I shower or bathe?
    * Will I have any drains to drain fluid from my surgical site?
    * Will I have much pain? What medicines can I take for the pain?
    * When can I start using my arm? Are there exercises I should do?
    * When will I be able to drive?
    * When will I be able to return to work? 

What kind of bra or other support top should I wear? Where can I buy it?

## Alternative Names

Mastectomy - what to ask your doctor; Breast reconstruction - what to ask your
doctor; TRAM flap - what to ask your doctor; Latissimus dorsi flap - what to
ask your doctor; What to ask your doctor about mastectomy and breast
reconstruction; Breast cancer - mastectomy - what to ask your doctor

## References

American Cancer Society website. Surgery for breast cancer.
www.cancer.org/cancer/breast-cancer/treatment/surgery-for-breast-cancer.html.
Updated August 18, 2016. Accessed March 20, 2019.

Hunt KK, Mittendorf EA. Diseases of the breast. In: Townsend CM, Beauchamp RD,
Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery: The Biological Basis
of Modern Surgical Practice_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap
34.

## Read More

    * Breast cancer
    * Breast reconstruction - implants 
    * Breast reconstruction - natural tissue
    * Mastectomy

## Patient Instructions

    * Mastectomy - discharge 

## Review Date 3/13/2019

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Breast Reconstruction
    * Mastectomy

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

