Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003867.htm    
                                Description: Intracardiac electrophysiology study (EPS) is a test to look at how well the heart    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Intracardiac electrophysiology study (EPS)

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003867.htm

# Intracardiac electrophysiology study (EPS)

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Intracardiac electrophysiology study (EPS) is a test to look at how well the
heart's electrical signals are working. It is used to check for abnormal
heartbeats or heart rhythms.

## How the Test is Performed

Wire electrodes are placed in the heart to do this test. These electrodes
measure electrical activity in the heart.

The procedure is done in a hospital laboratory. The staff will include a
cardiologist, technicians, and nurses.

To have this study:

    * Your groin and/or neck area will be cleaned and numbing medicine (anesthetic) will be applied to the skin.
    * The cardiologist will then place several IVs (called sheaths) into the groin or neck area. Once these IVs are in place, wires or electrodes can be passed through the sheaths into your body.
    * The doctor uses moving x-ray images to guide the catheter into the heart and place the electrodes in the right places.
    * The electrodes pick up the heart's electrical signals.
    * Electrical signals from the electrodes may be used to make the heart skip beats or produce an abnormal heart rhythm. This can help the doctor understand more about what is causing the abnormal heart rhythm or where in the heart it is starting.
    * You may also be given medicines that may also be used for the same purpose. 

Other procedures that may also be done during the test:

    * Placement of a heart pacemaker
    * Procedure to destroy small areas in your heart that may be causing your heart rhythm problems (called catheter ablation) 

![Cardiac conduction
system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200080t.gif)Watch this video
about:Cardiac conduction system

## How to Prepare for the Test

You will be told not to eat or drink for 6 to 8 hours before the test.

You will wear a hospital gown. You must sign a consent form for the procedure.

Your health care provider will tell you ahead of time if you need to make
changes to the medicines you regularly take. DO NOT stop taking or change any
medicines without first talking to your provider.

In most cases, you will be given medicine to help you feel calm before the
procedure. The study can last from 1 hour up to several hours. You may not be
able to drive home afterward, so you should plan for someone to drive you.

## How the Test will Feel

You will be awake during the test. You may feel some discomfort when the IV is
placed into your arm. You may also feel some pressure at the site when the
catheter is inserted. You may feel your heart skipping beats or racing at
times.

## Why the Test is Performed

Your provider may order this test if you have signs of an abnormal heart
rhythm (arrhythmia).

You may need to have other tests before this study is done.

An EPS may be done to:

    * Test the function of your heart's electrical system
    * Pinpoint a known abnormal heart rhythm (arrhythmia) that is starting in the heart
    * Decide the best therapy for an abnormal heart rhythm
    * Determine whether you are at risk for future heart events, especially sudden cardiac death
    * See if medicine is controlling an abnormal heart rhythm
    * See whether you need a pacemaker or implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) 

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be due to abnormal heart rhythms that are too slow or too
fast. These may include:

    * Atrial fibrillation or flutter
    * Heart block
    * Sick sinus syndrome
    * Supraventricular tachycardia (a collection of abnormal heart rhythms that start in the upper chambers of the heart)
    * Ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia
    * Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome

There may be other causes that are not on this list.

The provider must find the location and type of heart rhythm problem in order
to determine the proper treatment.

## Risks

The procedure is very safe in most cases. Possible risks include:

    * Arrhythmias
    * Bleeding
    * Blood clots that lead to embolism
    * Cardiac tamponade
    * Heart attack
    * Infection
    * Injury to the vein
    * Low blood pressure
    * Stroke 

## Alternative Names

Electrophysiology study - intracardiac; EPS - intracardiac; Abnormal heart
rhythms - EPS; Bradycardia - EPS; Tachycardia - EPS; Fibrillation - EPS;
Arrhythmia - EPS; Heart block - EPS

## Images

    * ![Heart - front view](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1097t.jpg)Heart - front view
    * ![Conduction system of the heart](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18052t.jpg)Conduction system of the heart

## References

Ferreira SW, Mehdirad AA. The electrophysiology laboratory and
electrophysiologic procedures. In: Kern MJ, Sorajja P, Lim MJ, eds. _The
Cardiac Catheterization Handbook_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 6.

Olgin JE. Approach to the patient with suspected arrhythmia. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 62.

Tomaselli GF, Rubart M, Zipes DP. Mechanisms of cardiac arrhythmias. In: Zipes
DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's
Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 34.

## Review Date 5/16/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Arrhythmia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Arrhythmia_thumb.jpg)Arrhythmia
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

