Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007200.htm    
                                Description: Ventricular fibrillation (VF) is a severely abnormal heart rhythm (arrhythmia) that is life threatening.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ventricular fibrillation

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007200.htm

# Ventricular fibrillation

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Ventricular fibrillation (VF) is a severely abnormal heart rhythm (arrhythmia)
that is life threatening.

## Causes

The heart pumps blood to the lungs, brain, and other organs. If the heartbeat
is interrupted, even for a few seconds, it can lead to fainting (syncope) or
cardiac arrest.

Fibrillation is an uncontrolled twitching or quivering of muscle fibers
(fibrils). When it occurs in the lower chambers of the heart, it is called VF.
During VF, blood is not pumped from the heart. Sudden cardiac death results.

The most common cause of VF is a heart attack. However, VF can occur whenever
the heart muscle does not get enough oxygen. Conditions that can lead to VF
include:

    * Electrocution accidents or injury to the heart
    * Heart attack or angina
    * Heart disease that is present at birth (congenital)
    * Heart muscle disease in which the heart muscle becomes weakened and stretched or thickened
    * Heart surgery
    * Sudden cardiac death (commotio cordis); most often occurs in athletes who have had a sudden blow to the area directly over the heart
    * Medicines
    * Very high or very low potassium levels in the blood 

Most people with VF have no history of heart disease. However, they often have
heart disease risk factors, such as smoking, high blood pressure, and
diabetes.

## Symptoms

A person who has a VF episode can suddenly collapse or become unconscious.
This happens because the brain and muscles are not receiving blood from the
heart.

The following symptoms may occur within minutes to 1 hour before the collapse:

    * Chest pain
    * Dizziness
    * Nausea
    * Rapid or irregular heartbeat (palpitations)
    * Shortness of breath 

## Exams and Tests

A cardiac monitor will show a very disorganized ("chaotic") heart rhythm.

Tests will be done to look for the cause of the VF.

## Treatment

VF is a medical emergency. It must be treated immediately to save a person's
life.

Call for emergency help (such as 911) if a person who is having a VF episode
collapses at home or becomes unconscious.

    * While waiting for help, place the person's head and neck in line with the rest of the body to help make breathing easier. Start CPR by doing chest compressions in the center of the chest ("push hard and push fast"). Compressions should be delivered at the rate of 100 to 120 times per minute. Compressions should be done to a depth of at least 2 inches (5 cm) but no more than 2 Â¼ inches (6 cm).
    * Continue to do this until the person becomes alert or help arrives. 

VF is treated by delivering a quick electric shock through the chest. It is
done using a device called an external defibrillator. The electric shock can
immediately restore the heartbeat to a normal rhythm, and should be done as
quickly as possible. Many public places now have these machines.

Medicines may be given to control the heartbeat and heart function.

An implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) is a device that can be
implanted in the chest wall of people who are at risk for this serious rhythm
disorder The ICD detects the dangerous heart rhythm and quickly sends a shock
to correct it. It is a good idea for family members and friends of people who
have had VF and heart disease to take a CPR course. CPR courses are available
through the American Red Cross, hospitals, or the American Heart Association.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

VF will lead to death within a few minutes unless it is treated quickly and
properly. Even then, long-term survival for people who live through a VF
attack outside of the hospital is low.

## Possible Complications

People who have survived VF may be in a coma or have long-term brain or other
organ damage.

## Alternative Names

VF; Fibrillation - ventricular; Arrhythmia - VF; Abnormal heart rhythm - VF;
Cardiac arrest - VF; Defibrillator - VF; Cardioversion - VF; Defibrillate - VF

## Patient Instructions

    * Implantable cardioverter defibrillator - discharge

## Images

    * ![Heart - section through the middle](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1056t.jpg)Heart - section through the middle
    * ![Heart - front view](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1097t.jpg)Heart - front view

## References

Epstein AE, DiMarco JP, Ellenbogen KA, et al. 2012 ACCF/AHA/HRS focused update
incorporated into the ACCF/AHA/HRS 2008 guidelines for device-based therapy of
cardiac rhythm abnormalities: a report of the American College of Cardiology
Foundation/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines and
the Heart Rhythm Society. _J Am Coll Cardiol_. 2013;61(3):e6-e75. PMID:
23265327 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23265327.

Garan H. Ventricular arrhythmias. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 65.

Kleinman ME, Goldberger ZD, Rea T, et al. 2017 American Heart Association
focused update on adult basic life support and cardiopulmonary resuscitation
quality: an update to the American Heart Association guidelines for
cardiopulmonary resuscitation and emergency cardiovascular care.
_Circulation_. 2018;137(1):e7-e13. PMID: 29114008
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29114008.

Myerburg RJ. Approach to cardiac arrest and life-threatening arrhythmias. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 63.

Olgin JE, Tomaselli GF, Zipes DP. Ventricular arrhythmias. In: Zipes DP, Libby
P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart
Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2019:chap 39.

## Review Date 5/16/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Arrhythmia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Arrhythmia_thumb.jpg)Arrhythmia
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

