Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/anatomyvideos/000067.htm    
                                Description: The heart is a four-chambered organ with four main vessels, which either bring blood to or carry blood away from the heart. The four chambers of the heart are the right atrium, the right ventricle, the    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Videos & Tools ->

Health Videos ->

Heartbeat

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/anatomyvideos/000067.htm

# Heartbeat

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Play health video: //medlineplus.gov/ency/videos/mov/200083_eng.mp4

What's this?Play health video with audio description:
//medlineplus.gov/ency/videos/mov/200083_eng_ad.mp4

## Overview

The heart is a four-chambered organ with four main vessels, which either bring
blood to or carry blood away from the heart. The four chambers of the heart
are the right atrium, the right ventricle, the left atrium, and the left
ventricle.

The great vessels of the heart include the superior and inferior vena cava,
which bring blood from the body to the right atrium, the pulmonary artery,
which transports blood from the right ventricle to the lungs. The last of the
great vessels is the aorta, the body's largest artery, which transports
oxygen-rich blood from the left ventricle to the rest of the body.

If we remove some of the tough fibrous coating of the heart and great vessels,
you can get a better look at the heart beating. If you look carefully, you can
see a series of one-way valves that keep the blood flowing in one direction.
If we inject dye into the superior vena cava, you can watch it pass through
the heart as it goes through the cardiac cycle.

The blood first enters the heart into the right atrium. Blood passes from the
right atrium through the tricuspid valve and into the right ventricle. When
the right ventricle contracts, the muscular force pushes blood through the
pulmonary semilunar valve into the pulmonary artery.

The blood then travels to the lungs, where it receives oxygen. Next, it drains
out of the lungs via the pulmonary veins, and travels to the left atrium. From
the left atrium, the blood is forced through the mitral valve into the
critically important left ventricle. The left ventricle is the major muscular
pump that sends the blood out to the body systems. When the left ventricle
contracts, it forces the blood through the aortic semilunar valves and into
the aorta. From here, the aorta and its branches carry blood to all the
tissues of the body.

## Review Date 7/25/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Arrhythmia
    * Atrial Fibrillation

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

