Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001100.htm    
                                Description: Ectopic heartbeats are small changes in a heartbeat that is otherwise normal. These changes lead to extra or skipped heartbeats. Often there is not a clear cause for these changes. They are mostly harmless.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ectopic heartbeat

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001100.htm

# Ectopic heartbeat

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Ectopic heartbeats are small changes in a heartbeat that is otherwise normal.
These changes lead to extra or skipped heartbeats. Often there is not a clear
cause for these changes. They are mostly harmless.

The two most common types of ectopic heartbeats are:

    * Premature ventricular contractions (PVC)
    * Premature atrial contractions (PAC) 

## Causes

Sometimes ectopic heartbeats are seen with:

    * Changes in the blood, such as a low potassium level (hypokalemia)
    * Decrease in blood supply to the heart
    * When the heart is enlarged

Ectopic beats may be caused or made worse by smoking, alcohol use, caffeine,
stimulant medicines, and some street drugs.

Ectopic heartbeats are rare in children without heart disease that was present
at birth (congenital). Most extra heartbeats in children are PACs. These are
almost always harmless.

In adults, ectopic heartbeats are common. They are most often due to PACs or
PVCs. Your health care provider should look into the cause when they are
frequent. Most of the time no treatment is needed.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

    * Feeling your heartbeat (palpitations)
    * Feeling like your heart stopped or skipped a beat
    * Feeling of occasional, forceful beats

Note: There may be no symptoms.

## Exams and Tests

A physical exam may show an occasional uneven pulse. If the ectopic heartbeats
DO NOT occur very often, your provider may not find them during a physical
exam.

Blood pressure is most often normal.

An ECG will be done. Often, no further testing is needed when your ECG is
normal and the symptoms are not severe or worrisome.

If your doctor wants to know more about your heart rhythm, he or she may
order:

    * A monitor that you wear that records and stores your heart rhythm for 24 to 48 hours (Holter monitor)
    * A recording device that you wear, and records your heart rhythm whenever you feel a skipped beat 

An echocardiogram may be ordered if your doctor suspects problems with the
size or structure of your heart are the cause.

![Electrocardiogram
\(ECG\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/8772.jpg)

## Treatment

The following may help reduce ectopic heartbeats for some people:

    * Limiting caffeine, alcohol, and tobacco 
    * Regular exercise for people who are inactive

Most ectopic heartbeats DO NOT need to be treated. The condition is only
treated if your symptoms are severe or if the extra beats occur very often.

The cause of the heartbeats, if it can be found, may also need to be treated.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

In some cases, ectopic heartbeats may mean you are at greater risk for serious
abnormal heart rhythms, such as ventricular tachycardia.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You keep feeling the sensation of your heart pounding or racing (palpitations).
    * You have palpitations with chest pain or other symptoms.
    * You have this condition and your symptoms get worse or DO NOT improve with treatment.

## Alternative Names

PVB (premature ventricular beat); Premature beats; PVC (premature ventricular
complex/contraction); Extrasystole; Premature supraventricular contractions;
PAC; Premature atrial contraction; Abnormal heartbeat

## Images

    * ![Heart - section through the middle](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1056t.jpg)Heart - section through the middle
    * ![Heart - front view](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1097t.jpg)Heart - front view
    * ![Electrocardiogram \(ECG\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8772t.jpg)Electrocardiogram (ECG)

## References

Fang JC, O'Gara PT. History and physical examination: an evidence-based
approach. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E,
eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 10.

Olgin JE. Approach to the patient with suspected arrhythmias. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 62.

## Review Date 5/20/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Arrhythmia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Arrhythmia_thumb.jpg)Arrhythmia
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

