Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000183.htm    
                                Description: Paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia (PSVT) is episodes of rapid heart rate that start in a part of the heart above the ventricles. &quot;Paroxysmal&quot; means from time to time.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia (PSVT)

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000183.htm

# Paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia (PSVT)

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia (PSVT) is episodes of rapid heart rate
that start in a part of the heart above the ventricles. "Paroxysmal" means
from time to time.

## Causes

Normally, the chambers of the heart (atria and ventricles) contract in a
coordinated manner.

    * The contractions are caused by an electrical signal that begins in an area of the heart called the sinoatrial node (also called the sinus node or SA node).
    * The signal moves through the upper heart chambers (the atria) and tells the atria to contract.
    * After this, the signal moves down in the heart and tells the lower chambers (the ventricles) to contract. 
![Conduction system of the
heart](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/18052.jpg)

The rapid heart rate from PSVT may start with events that occur in areas of
the heart above the lower chambers (ventricles).

There are a number of specific causes of PSVT. It can develop when doses of
the heart medicine, digitalis, are too high. It can also occur with a
condition known as Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome, which is most often seen in
young people and infants.

The following increase your risk for PSVT:

    * Alcohol use
    * Caffeine use
    * Illicit drug use
    * Smoking 

## Symptoms

Symptoms most often start and stop suddenly. They can last for a few minutes
or several hours. Symptoms may include:

    * Anxiety
    * Chest tightness
    * Palpitations (a sensation of feeling the heartbeat), often with an irregular or fast rate (racing)
    * Rapid pulse
    * Shortness of breath

Other symptoms that can occur with this condition:

    * Dizziness
    * Fainting

## Exams and Tests

A physical exam during a PSVT episode will show a rapid heart rate. It may
also show forceful pulses in the neck.

The heart rate may be over 100, and even more than 250 beats per minute (bpm).
In children, the heart rate tends to be very high. There may be signs of poor
blood circulation such as lightheadedness. Between episodes of PSVT, the heart
rate is normal (60 to 100 bpm).

An ECG during symptoms shows PSVT. An electrophysiology study (EPS) may be
needed for an accurate diagnosis and to find the best treatment.

Because PSVT comes and goes, to diagnose it people may need to wear a 24-hour
Holter monitor. For longer periods of time, another tape of the rhythm
recording device may be used.

![Holter heart monitor](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/8810.jpg)

## Treatment

PSVT that occurs only once in a while may not need treatment if you don't have
symptoms or other heart problems.

You can try the following techniques to interrupt a fast heartbeat during an
episode of PSVT:

    * Valsalva maneuver. To do this, you hold your breath and strain, as if you were trying to have a bowel movement.
    * Coughing while sitting with your upper body bent forward.
    * Splashing ice water on your face 

You should avoid smoking, caffeine, alcohol, and illicit drugs.

Emergency treatment to slow the heartbeat back to normal may include:

    * Electrical cardioversion, the use of electric shock
    * Medicines through a vein 

Long-term treatment for people who have repeat episodes of PSVT, or who also
have heart disease, may include:

    * Cardiac ablation, a procedure used to destroy small areas in your heart that may be causing the rapid heartbeat (currently the treatment of choice for most PSVTs)
    * Daily medicines to prevent repeat episodes
    * Pacemakers to override the fast heartbeat (on occasion may be used in children with PSVT who have not responded to any other treatment)
    * Surgery to change the pathways in the heart that send electrical signals (this may be recommended in some cases for people who need other heart surgery) 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

PSVT is generally not life threatening. If other heart disorders are present,
it can lead to congestive heart failure or angina.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if:

    * You have a sensation that your heart is beating quickly and the symptoms do not end on their own in a few minutes.
    * You have a history of PSVT and an episode does not go away with the Valsalva maneuver or by coughing.
    * You have other symptoms with the rapid heart rate.
    * Symptoms return often.
    * New symptoms develop.

It is especially important to call if you also have other heart problems.

## Alternative Names

PSVT; Supraventricular tachycardia; Abnormal heart rhythm - PSVT; Arrhythmia -
PSVT; Rapid heart rate - PSVT; Fast heart rate - PSVT

## Images

    * ![Conduction system of the heart](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18052t.jpg)Conduction system of the heart
    * ![Holter heart monitor](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8810t.jpg)Holter heart monitor

## References

Olgin JE, Zipes DP. Supraventricular arrhythmias. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow
RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A
Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 37.

Page RL, Joglar JA, Caldwell MA, et al. 2015 ACC/AHA/ HRS guideline for the
management of adult patients with supraventricular tachycardia: a report of
the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on
Clinical Practice Guidelines and the Heart Rhythm Society. _Circulation_.
2016;133(14);e471-e505. PMID: 26399662 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26399662.

Van Hare GF. Disturbances of rate and rhythm of the heart. In: Kliegman RM,
Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 435.

Zimetbaum P. Cardiac arrhythmias with supraventricular origin. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 64.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Arrhythmia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Arrhythmia_thumb.jpg)Arrhythmia
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

