Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007110.htm    
                                Description: Cardioversion is a method to bring an abnormal heart rhythm back to normal.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cardioversion

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007110.htm

# Cardioversion

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cardioversion is a method to bring an abnormal heart rhythm back to normal.

## Information

Cardioversion can be done using an electric shock or with drugs.

ELECTRIC CARDIOVERSION

Electric cardioversion is done with a device that gives off an electrical
shock to the heart to change the rhythm back to normal. The device is called a
defibrillator.

The shock can be delivered from a device outside the body called an external
defibrillator. These are found in emergency rooms, ambulances, or some public
places such as airports.

    * Electrode patches are placed on the chest and back. The patches are connected to the defibrillator. Or, paddles attached to the devices are placed directly onto the chest.
    * The defibrillator is activated and an electric shock is delivered to your heart.
    * This shock briefly stops all electrical activity of the heart. Then it allows the normal heart rhythm to return.
    * Sometimes more than one shock, or a shock with higher energy is needed. 

An external defibrillator is used to treat abnormal heart rhythms (arrhythmia)
that cause collapse and cardiac arrest. Examples are ventricular tachycardia
and ventricular fibrillation.

These same devices may also be used to treat less dangerous abnormal rhythms,
problems such as atrial fibrillation. The defibrillator will be used when the
abnormal heart rhythm cannot be controlled with medicine.

    * Some people may need to start blood thinners beforehand to prevent small blood clots.
    * You will be given medicine to help you relax before the procedure.
    * After the procedure, you may be given medicines to prevent blood clots or to help prevent the arrhythmia from coming back. 

An implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) is a device that is placed
inside your body. It is most often used in people who are at risk for sudden
death because their heart function is so poor, or they have had dangerous
heart rhythms before.

    * The ICD is implanted underneath the skin of your upper chest or abdomen.
    * Wires are attached that go into or near the heart.
    * If the device detects a dangerous heartbeat, it sends an electrical shock to the heart to change the rhythm back to normal. 
![Implantable cardioverter-
defibrillator](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/21739.jpg)

CARDIOVERSION USING DRUGS

Cardioversion can be done using drugs that are taken by mouth or given through
an intravenous line (IV). It can take from several minutes to days for this
treatment to work. This treatment is often done while in a hospital where your
heart rhythm will be monitored.

Cardioversion using drugs can be done outside the hospital. This treatment is
most often used for people with atrial fibrillation that comes and goes.
However, you will need to be closely followed-up by a cardiologist.

You may be given blood thinning medicines to prevent blood clots from forming
and leaving the heart (which can cause a stroke).

COMPLICATIONS

Complications of cardioversion are uncommon, but may include:

    * Allergic reactions from medicines used
    * Blood clots that can cause a stroke or other organ damage
    * Bruising, burning, or pain where the electrodes were used
    * Worsening of the arrhythmia 

People who perform external cardioversion may be shocked if the procedure is
not done correctly. This can cause heart rhythm problems, pain, and even
death.

## Alternative Names

Abnormal heart rhythms - cardioversion; Bradycardia - cardioversion;
Tachycardia - cardioversion; Fibrillation - cardioversion; Arrhythmia -
cardioversion; Cardiac arrest - cardioversion; Defibrillator - cardioversion;
Pharmacologic cardioversion

## Images

    * ![Implantable cardioverter-defibrillator](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/21739t.jpg)Implantable cardioverter-defibrillator

## References

Al-Khatib SM, Stevenson WG, Ackerman MJ, et al. 2017 AHA/ACC/HRS guideline for
management of patients with ventricular arrhythmias and the prevention of
sudden cardiac death: executive summary: a report of the American College of
Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Clinical Practice
Guidelines and the Heart Rhythm Society. _Heart Rhythm_.
2018;15(10):e190-e252. PMID: 29097320 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29097320.

Epstein AE, DiMarco JP, Ellenbogen KA, et al. 2012 ACCF/AHA/HRS focused update
incorporated into the ACCF/AHA/HRS 2008 guidelines for device-based therapy of
cardiac rhythm abnormalities: a report of the American College of Cardiology
Foundation/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines and
the Heart Rhythm Society. _J Am Coll Cardiol_. 2013;61(3):e6-e75. PMID:
23265327 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23265327.

Miller JM, Tomaselli GF, Zipes DP. Therapy for cardiac arrhythmias. In: Zipes
DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's
Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 36.

Myerburg RJ. Approach to cardiac arrest and life-threatening arrhythmias. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 63.

Wilber DJ. Electrophysiologic interventional procedures and surgery. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 66.

## Review Date 5/16/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.
Editorial update 10/04/2018.

![Arrhythmia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Arrhythmia_thumb.jpg)Arrhythmia
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

