Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000151.htm    
                                Description: Wolff-Parkinson-White (WPW) syndrome is a condition in which there is an extra electrical pathway in the heart. The condition can lead to periods of rapid heart rate (tachycardia).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome (WPW)

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000151.htm

# Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome (WPW)

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Wolff-Parkinson-White (WPW) syndrome is a condition in which there is an extra
electrical pathway in the heart. The condition can lead to periods of rapid
heart rate (tachycardia).

WPW syndrome is one of the most common causes of fast heart rate problems in
infants and children.

## Causes

Normally, electrical signals follow a certain pathway through the heart. This
helps the heart beat regularly. This prevents the heart from having extra
beats or beats happening too soon.

In people with WPW syndrome, some of the heartâs electrical signals go down
an extra pathway. This may cause a very rapid heart rate called
supraventricular tachycardia.

Most people with WPW syndrome do not have any other heart problems. However,
this condition has been linked with other cardiac conditions, such as Ebstein
anomaly. A form of the condition also runs in families.

![Ebstein's anomaly](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/22703.jpg)

## Symptoms

How often a rapid heart rate occurs varies depending on the person. Some
people with WPW syndrome have only a few episodes of rapid heart rate. Others
may have the rapid heart rate once or twice a week or more. Also, there may be
no symptoms at all, so that condition is found when a heart test is done for
another reason.

A person with this syndrome may have:

    * Chest pain or chest tightness
    * Dizziness
    * Lightheadedness
    * Fainting
    * Palpitations (a sensation of feeling your heart beating, usually quickly or irregularly)
    * Shortness of breath

## Exams and Tests

A physical exam done during a tachycardia episode will show a heart rate
faster than 100 beats per minute. A normal heart rate is 60 to 100 beats per
minute in adults, and under 150 beats per minute in newborns, infants, and
small children. Blood pressure will be normal or low in most cases.

If the person is not having tachycardia at the time of the exam, the results
may be normal. The condition may be diagnosed with an ECG or with ambulatory
ECG monitoring, such as a Holter monitor.

![Holter heart monitor](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/8810.jpg)

A test called an electrophysiologic study (EPS) is done using catheters that
are placed in the heart. This test may help identify the location of the extra
electrical pathway.

## Treatment

Medicines, particularly antiarrhythmic drugs such as procainamide or
amiodarone, may be used to control or prevent a rapid heartbeat.

If the heart rate does not return to normal with medical treatment, doctors
may use a type of therapy called electrical cardioversion (shock).

The long-term treatment for WPW syndrome is very often catheter ablation. This
procedure involves inserting a tube (catheter) into a vein through a small cut
near the groin up to the heart area. When the tip reaches the heart, the small
area that is causing the fast heart rate is destroyed using a special type of
energy called radiofrequency or by freezing it (cryoablation). This is done as
part of an electrophysiologic study (EPS).

Open heart surgery to burn or freeze the extra pathway may also provide a
permanent cure for WPW syndrome. In most cases, this procedure is done only if
you need heart surgery for other reasons.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Catheter ablation cures this disorder in most people. The success rate for the
procedure ranges between 85% to 95%. Success rates will vary depending on the
location and number of extra pathways.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Complications of surgery
    * Heart failure
    * Reduced blood pressure (caused by rapid heart rate)
    * Side effects of medicines 

The most severe form of a rapid heartbeat is ventricular fibrillation (VF),
which may rapidly lead to shock or death. It can sometimes occur in people
with WPW, particularly if they also have atrial fibrillation (AF), which is
another type of abnormal heart rhythm. This type of rapid heartbeat requires
emergency treatment and a procedure called cardioversion.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if:

    * You have symptoms of WPW syndrome.
    * You have this disorder and symptoms get worse or do not improve with treatment. 

Talk to your provider about whether your family members should be screened for
inherited forms of this condition.

## Alternative Names

Preexcitation syndrome; WPW; Tachycardia - Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome;
Arrhythmia - WPW; Abnormal heart rhythm - WPW; Rapid heartbeat - WPW

## Images

    * ![Ebstein's anomaly](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22703t.jpg)Ebstein's anomaly
    * ![Holter heart monitor](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8810t.jpg)Holter heart monitor
    * ![Conduction system of the heart](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18052t.jpg)Conduction system of the heart

## References

Tomaselli GF, Zipes DP. Approach to the patient with cardiac arrhythmias. In:
Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds.
_Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 32.

Van Hare GF. Disturbances of rate and rhythm of the heart. In: Kliegman RM,
Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 435.

Zimetbaum P. Cardiac arrhythmias with supraventricular origin. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 64.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Arrhythmia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Arrhythmia_thumb.jpg)Arrhythmia
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

