Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000161.htm    
                                Description: Normally, the heartbeat starts in an area in the top chambers of the heart (atria). This area is the heart    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Sick sinus syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000161.htm

# Sick sinus syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Normally, the heartbeat starts in an area in the top chambers of the heart
(atria). This area is the heart's pacemaker. It is called the sinoatrial node,
sinus node or SA node. Its role is to keep the heart beat steady and regular.

Sick sinus syndrome is a group of heart rhythm problems due to problems with
the sinus node, such as:

    * The heartbeat rate is too slow, called sinus bradycardia 
    * The heartbeat pauses or stops, called sinus pauses or sinus arrest
    * Episodes of a fast heart rate
    * Slow heart rhythms that alternate with fast heart rhythms, called bradycardia-tachycardia or "tachy-brady syndrome"

## Causes

Sick sinus syndrome most often occurs in people older than age 50. It is often
due to scar-like damage to electrical pathways in the heart muscle tissue.

In children, heart surgery on the upper chambers is a common cause of sick
sinus syndrome.

Coronary heart disease, high blood pressure, and aortic and mitral valve
diseases may occur with sick sinus syndrome. However, these diseases may have
nothing to do with the syndrome.

Sick sinus syndrome is uncommon, but not rare. It is the most common reason
people need to have an artificial pacemaker implanted. Sinus bradycardia
occurs more often than the other types of the condition.

Tachycardias (rapid heart rhythms) that start in the upper chambers of the
heart may be part of the syndrome. These include atrial fibrillation, atrial
flutter, atrial tachycardia. A period of fast heart rates is often followed by
very slow heart rates.

Some medicines can make abnormal heart rhythms worse. These include digitalis,
calcium channel blockers, beta-blockers, and antiarrhythmics.

## Symptoms

Most of the time, there are no symptoms.

Symptoms that do occur may mimic those of other disorders.

Symptoms may include:

    * Chest pain or angina
    * Confusion or other changes in mental status
    * Fainting or near-fainting
    * Fatigue
    * Dizziness or lightheadedness
    * Sensation of feeling the heart beat (palpitations)
    * Shortness of breath, possibly only with physical activity like walking 

## Exams and Tests

The heart rate may be very slow at any time. Blood pressure may be normal or
low.

Sick sinus syndrome may cause symptoms of heart failure to start or get worse.
Sick sinus syndrome is diagnosed when the symptoms occur only during episodes
of arrhythmia. However, the link is often hard to prove.

An ECG may show abnormal heart rhythms related to this syndrome.

Holter monitoring is an effective tool for diagnosing sick sinus syndrome. It
may pick up very slow heart rates and long pauses, along with episodes of
atrial tachycardias. Other forms of longer-term electrical monitoring may also
be useful.

An intracardiac electrophysiology study (EPS) is a very specific test for this
disorder. However, it is not often needed and may not confirm the diagnosis.

In some cases, a person's heart rate is observed when walking or exercising to
see if it increases enough.

## Treatment

You may not need treatment if you do not have any symptoms. Your health care
provider will review the medicines you take to make sure they are not making
your condition worse. Do not stop taking any of your medicines unless your
provider tells you to do so.

You may need a permanent implanted pacemaker if your symptoms are related to
bradycardia (slow heart rate).

![Pacemaker](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/23220.jpg)

A fast heart rate (tachycardia) may be treated with medicine. Sometimes, a
procedure called radiofrequency ablation is used to cure tachycardia.

In some cases, medicines used to control periods of fast heart rate are
combined with use of a pacemaker, which guards against periods of slow heart
rate.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The syndrome is most often progressive. This means it gets worse over time in
most cases.

The long-term outlook is excellent for people who have a permanent pacemaker
implanted.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Angina
    * Decreased exercise capacity
    * Fainting (syncope)
    * Falls or injury caused by fainting
    * Heart failure
    * Poor heart pumping 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have:

    * Lightheadedness
    * Fainting
    * Palpitations
    * Other symptoms of the condition

## Prevention

Keeping your heart healthy by eating a well-balanced diet and exercising can
prevent many types of heart disease.

You may need to avoid some types of medicines. Many times, the condition is
not preventable.

## Alternative Names

Bradycardia-tachycardia syndrome; Sinus node dysfunction; Slow heart rate -
sick sinus; Tachy-brady syndrome; Sinus pause - sick sinus; Sinus arrest -
sick sinus

## Patient Instructions

    * Heart pacemaker - discharge

## Images

    * ![Pacemaker](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23220t.jpg)Pacemaker

## References

Olgin JE, Zipes DP. Bradyarrhythmias and atrioventricular block. In: Zipes DP,
Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart
Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2019:chap 40.

Zimetbaum P. Cardiac arrhythmias with supraventricular origin. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 64.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Arrhythmia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Arrhythmia_thumb.jpg)Arrhythmia
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

