Link: https://medlineplus.gov/diabetestype2.html    
                                Description: Type 2 Diabetes, previously referred to as Adult Onset Diabetes, is the more common type. Risk factors include obesity and family history.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Diabetes Type 2

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/diabetestype2.html

#  Diabetes Type 2

Also called: Type 2 Diabetes

On this page

### Basics

  * Summary
  * Start Here
  * Symptoms
  * Diagnosis and Tests
  * Prevention and Risk Factors
  * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

  * Living With
  * Related Issues
  * Specifics
  * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

  * Health Check Tools
  * Videos and Tutorials

### Research

  * Statistics and Research
  * Clinical Trials
  * Journal Articles

### Resources

  * Reference Desk
  * Find an Expert

### For You

  * Men
  * Women
  * Older Adults
  * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Diabetes means your blood glucose, or blood sugar, levels are too high. With
type 2 diabetes, the more common type, your body does not make or use insulin
well. Insulin is a hormone that helps glucose get into your cells to give them
energy. Without insulin, too much glucose stays in your blood. Over time, high
blood glucose can lead to serious problems with your heart, eyes, kidneys,
nerves, and gums and teeth.

You have a higher risk of type 2 diabetes if you are older, have obesity, have
a family history of diabetes, or do not exercise. Having prediabetes also
increases your risk. Prediabetes means that your blood sugar is higher than
normal but not high enough to be called diabetes. If you are at risk for type
2 diabetes, you may be able to delay or prevent developing it by making some
lifestyle changes.

The symptoms of type 2 diabetes appear slowly. Some people do not notice
symptoms at all. The symptoms can include

  * Being very thirsty
  * Urinating often
  * Feeling very hungry or tired
  * Losing weight without trying
  * Having sores that heal slowly
  * Having blurry eyesight

Blood tests can show if you have diabetes. One type of test, the A1C, can also
check on how you are managing your diabetes. Many people can manage their
diabetes through healthy eating, physical activity, and blood glucose testing.
Some people also need to take diabetes medicines.

NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases

## Start Here

  * Type 2 Diabetes (American Diabetes Association)
  * Type 2 Diabetes (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research)
  * Types of Diabetes ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) Also in Spanish

## Symptoms

  * Diabetes Type 2 Symptoms (American Diabetes Association)

## Diagnosis and Tests

  * A1C: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * Diabetes and Prediabetes Tests ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)
  * Diabetes Tests & Diagnosis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) Also in Spanish
  * Insulin in Blood ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * Ketones in Blood ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * Ketones in Urine ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * Microalbumin Test (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish

## Prevention and Risk Factors

  * All about Your Risk for Prediabetes, Type 2 Diabetes, and Heart Disease (American Diabetes Association) \- PDF
  * Find a Diabetes Prevention Program Near You (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
  * How to Prevent Diabetes: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Treatments and Therapies

  * Diabetes and Dietary Supplements ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health) Also in Spanish
  * Diabetes Medicines: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * Women and Diabetes - Diabetes Medicines ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (Food and Drug Administration)

## Living With

  * 4 Steps to Manage Your Diabetes for Life ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (National Diabetes Education Program) Also in Spanish
  * Changing Your Habits: Steps to Better Health ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) \- PDF
  * Diabetic Diet: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * Get to Know Your Diabetes Care Team (American Diabetes Association)
  * Getting the Very Best Care for Your Diabetes (American Diabetes Association) \- PDF
  * Monitoring (American Association of Diabetes Educators)
  * Taking Care of Type 2 Diabetes (American Diabetes Association) \- PDF
  * Understanding Diabetes and Mental Health (American Diabetes Association)
  * Weight Loss (American Diabetes Association)
  * Where Do I Begin with Type 2? (American Diabetes Association)

## Related Issues

  * 6 Things to Know about Type 2 Diabetes and Dietary Supplements ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health)
  * Acanthosis Nigricans (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
  * Causes of Diabetes ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) Also in Spanish
  * Diabetes Diet, Eating, and Physical Activity ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) ![Easy-to-Read](https://medlineplus.gov/images/easyreadgreen.gif) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) Also in Spanish
  * Monogenic Diabetes (Hormone Health Network) Also in Spanish
  * National Diabetes Prevention Program (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
  * Prediabetes:MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * Speak Up -- Diabetes: Five Ways to Be Active in Your Care at the Hospital (Joint Commission) \- PDF Also in Spanish

## Specifics

  * All about Insulin Resistance (American Diabetes Association) \- PDF

## Genetics

  * Genetics Home Reference: type 2 diabetes ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Learn the Genetics of Diabetes (American Diabetes Association)

## Health Check Tools

  * Type 2 Diabetes Risk Test (American Diabetes Association)

## Videos and Tutorials

  * Diabetes Movie (For Parents) ![Video](https://medlineplus.gov/images/videocamera.gif) (Nemours Foundation)

## Statistics and Research

  * Diabetes in America, 3rd Edition (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)
  * Recent Advances (in Diabetes Research) (American Diabetes Association)

## Clinical Trials

  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2 ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

  * Article: The effect of pay for performance on risk incidence of hip...
  * Article: The Relationship Between Family Support, Self-Care, and Health Outcomes in Selected...
  * Article: Traditional Chinese medicine Shenqi compound to improve lower extremity atherosclerosis of...
  * Diabetes Type 2 -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

  * Diabetes: Glossary of Terms (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Find an Expert

  * American Diabetes Association
  * Find a Diabetes Educator (American Association of Diabetes Educators)
  * National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)
  * NIDDK Information Clearinghouses and Health Information Center ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)

## Men

  * Men (American Diabetes Association)

## Women

  * Diabetes Fact Sheet (Department of Health and Human Services, Office on Women's Health) Also in Spanish

## Older Adults

  * Diabetes in Older People ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute on Aging) Also in Spanish
  * Diabetes: Unique to Older Adults (AGS Foundation for Health in Aging)

## Patient Handouts

  * A1C test (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Diabetes type 2 - meal planning (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Giving an insulin injection (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * High blood sugar - self-care (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Type 2 diabetes - self-care (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Diabetes Type 2](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DiabetesType2.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

  * A1C test
  * Diabetes - what to ask your doctor - type 2
  * Diabetes type 2 - meal planning
  * Giving an insulin injection
  * High blood sugar - self-care
  * Type 2 diabetes - self-care

## Related Health Topics

  * A1C
  * Blood Sugar
  * Diabetes
  * Diabetes Complications
  * Diabetes in Children and Teens
  * Diabetes Medicines
  * Diabetes Type 1
  * Diabetic Diet
  * How to Prevent Diabetes
  * Prediabetes

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Diabetes Type 2 is the National
Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Diabetes Type 2_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 24 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 2 May 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

