Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007700.htm    
                                Description: A cardiac event monitor is a device that you control to record the electrical activity of your heart (ECG). This device is about the size of a pager. It records your heart rate and rhythm.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cardiac event monitors

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007700.htm

# Cardiac event monitors

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A cardiac event monitor is a device that you control to record the electrical
activity of your heart (ECG). This device is about the size of a pager. It
records your heart rate and rhythm.

Cardiac event monitors are used when you need long-term monitoring of symptoms
that occur less than daily.

## How the Test is Performed

Each type of monitor is slightly different, but they all have sensors (called
electrodes) to record your ECG. In some models, these attach to the skin on
your chest using sticky patches. The sensors need good contact with your skin.
Poor contact can cause poor results.

You should keep your skin free from oils, creams, and sweat (as much as
possible). The technician who places the monitor will perform the following to
get a good ECG recording:

    * Men will have the area on their chest shaved where the electrode patches will be placed.
    * The area of skin where the electrodes will be attached will be cleaned with alcohol before the sensors are attached. 

You can carry or wear a cardiac event monitor up to 30 days. You carry the
device in your hand, wear on your wrist, or keep it in your pocket. Event
monitors can be worn for weeks or until symptoms occur.

There are several types of cardiac event monitors.

    *  **Loop memory monitor.** The electrodes remain attached to your chest, and the monitor constantly records, but does not save, your ECG. When you feel symptoms, you press a button to activate the device. The device will then save the ECG from shortly before, during, and for a time after your symptoms begin. Some event monitors start on their own if they detect abnormal heart rhythms.
    *  **Symptom event monitor.** This device records your ECG only when symptoms occur, not before they occur. You carry this device in a pocket or wear it on your wrist. When you feel symptoms, you turn on the device and place the electrodes on your chest to record the ECG.
    *  **Patch recorders.** This monitor does not use wires or electrodes. It continuously monitors ECG activity for 14 days using an adhesive patch that sticks to the chest.
    *  **Implanted loop recorders.** This is a small monitor that is implanted under the skin on the chest. It can be left in place to monitor heart rhythms for 3 or more years. 

While wearing the device:

    * You should continue your normal activities while wearing the monitor. You may be asked to exercise or adjust your activity level during the test.
    * Keep a diary of what activities you do while wearing the monitor, how you feel, and any symptoms you have. This will help your health care provider match symptoms with your monitor findings.
    * The monitoring station staff will tell you how to transfer data over the telephone.
    * Your provider will look at the data and see if there have been any abnormal heart rhythms.
    * The monitoring company or the provider who ordered the monitor may contact you if a concerning rhythm is discovered. 

While wearing the device, you may be asked to avoid certain things that can
disrupt the signal between the sensors and the monitor. These may include:

    * Cell phones
    * Electric blankets
    * Electric toothbrushes
    * High-voltage areas
    * Magnets
    * Metal detectors 

Ask the technician who attaches the device for a list of things to avoid.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Tell your provider if you are allergic to any tape or other adhesives.

## How the Test will Feel

This is a painless test. However, the adhesive of the electrode patches may
irritate your skin. This goes away on its own once you remove the patches.

You must keep the monitor close to your body.

## Why the Test is Performed

Most often, in people with frequent symptoms, a test called Holter monitoring,
which lasts 1Â toÂ 2 days, will be performed before using a cardiac event
monitor. The event monitor is ordered only if no diagnosis is reached. The
event monitor is also used for people who have symptoms that occur less often,
such as weekly to monthly.

Cardiac event monitoring may be used:

    * To assess someone with palpitations. Palpitations are feelings that your heart is pounding or racing or beating irregularly. They can be felt in your chest, throat, or neck.
    * To identify the reason for a fainting or near fainting episode.
    * To diagnose heartbeats in people with risk factors for arrhythmias.
    * To monitor your heart after a heart attack or when starting or stopping a heart medicine.
    * To check if a pacemaker or an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator is working properly.
    * To look for the cause of a stroke when the cause cannot be easily found with other tests. 

## Normal Results

Normal variations in heart rate occur with activities. A normal result is no
significant changes in heart rhythms or pattern.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may include various arrhythmias. Changes may mean that the
heart is not getting enough oxygen.

It may be used to diagnose:

    * Atrial fibrillation or flutter
    * Multifocal atrial tachycardia
    * Paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia
    * Ventricular tachycardia
    * Slow heart rate (bradycardia)
    * Heart block

## Risks

There are no risks associated with the test, other than possible skin
irritation.

## Alternative Names

Ambulatory electrocardiography; Electrocardiography (ECG) - ambulatory;
Continuous electrocardiograms (EKGs); Holter monitors; Transtelephonic event
monitors

## References

Krahn AD, Yee R, Skanes AC, Klein GJ. Cardiac monitoring: short- and long-term
recording. In: Zipes DP, Jalife J, Stevenson WG, eds. _Cardiac
Electrophysiology: From Cell to Bedside_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2018:chap 66.

Miller JM, Tomaselli GF, Zipes DP. Diagnosis of cardiac arrhythmias. In: Zipes
DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's
Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 35.

Tomaselli GF, Zipes DP. Approach to the patient with cardiac arrhythmias. In:
Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds.
_Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 32.

## Review Date 9/24/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Arrhythmia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Arrhythmia_thumb.jpg)Arrhythmia
_Read more_

![Atrial
Fibrillation](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AtrialFib_thumb.jpg)Atrial
Fibrillation _Read more_

![Heart Health
Tests](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartHealthTest_thumb.jpg)Heart Health
Tests _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

