Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003877.htm    
                                Description: A Holter monitor is a machine that continuously records the heart    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Holter monitor (24h)

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003877.htm

# Holter monitor (24h)

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A Holter monitor is a machine that continuously records the heart's rhythms.
The monitor is worn for 24 to 48 hours during normal activity.

## How the Test is Performed

Electrodes (small conducting patches) are stuck onto your chest. These are
attached by wires to a small recording monitor. You carry the Holter monitor
in a pocket or pouch worn around your neck or waist. The monitor runs on
batteries.

While you wear the monitor, it records your heart's electrical activity.

    * Keep a diary of what activities you do while wearing the monitor, and how you feel.
    * After 24 to 48 hours, you will return the monitor to your health care provider's office.
    * The provider will look at the records and see if there have been any abnormal heart rhythms. 
![Holter heart monitor](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/8810.jpg)

It is very important that you accurately record your symptoms and activities
so the provider can match them with your Holter monitor findings.

Electrodes must be firmly attached to the chest so the machine gets an
accurate recording of the heart's activity.

While wearing the device, avoid:

    * Electric blankets
    * High-voltage areas
    * Magnets
    * Metal detectors 

Continue your normal activities while wearing the monitor. You may be asked to
exercise while being monitored if your symptoms have occurred in the past
while you were exercising.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You DO NOT need to prepare for the test.

Your provider will start the monitor. You'll be told how to replace the
electrodes if they fall off or get loose.

Tell your provider if you are allergic to any tape or other adhesives. Make
sure you shower or bathe before you start the test. You will not be able to do
so while you are wearing a Holter monitor.

## How the Test will Feel

This is a painless test. However, some people may need to have their chest
shaved so the electrodes can stick.

You must keep the monitor close to your body. This may make it hard for you to
sleep.

Occasionally there may be an uncomfortable skin reaction to the sticky
electrodes. You should call the provider's office where it was placed to tell
them about it.

## Why the Test is Performed

Holter monitoring is used to determine how the heart responds to normal
activity. The monitor may also be used:

    * After a heart attack
    * To diagnose heart rhythm problems that may be causing symptoms such as palpitations or syncope (passing out/fainting)
    * When starting a new heart medicine 

Heart rhythms which may be recorded include:

    * Atrial fibrillation or flutter
    * Multifocal atrial tachycardia
    * Paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia
    * Slow heart rate (bradycardia)
    * Ventricular tachycardia

## Normal Results

Normal variations in heart rate occur with activities. A normal result is no
significant changes in heart rhythms or pattern.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may include various arrhythmias such as those listed above.
Some changes may mean that the heart is not getting enough oxygen.

## Risks

Other than the uncommon skin reaction, there are no risks associated with the
test. However, you should be sure not to let the monitor get wet.

## Alternative Names

Ambulatory electrocardiography; Electrocardiography - ambulatory; Atrial
fibrillation - Holter; Flutter - Holter; Tachycardia - Holter; Abnormal heart
rhythm - Holter; Arrythmia - Holter; Syncope - Holter; Arrhythmia - Holter

## Images

    * ![Holter heart monitor](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8810t.jpg)Holter heart monitor
    * ![Heart - section through the middle](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1056t.jpg)Heart - section through the middle
    * ![Heart - front view](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1097t.jpg)Heart - front view
    * ![Normal heart rhythm](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18032t.jpg)Normal heart rhythm
    * ![Conduction system of the heart](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18052t.jpg)Conduction system of the heart

## References

Miller JM, Tomaselli GF, Zipes DP. Diagnosis of cardiac arrhythmias. In: Zipes
DP, Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's
Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 35.

Olgin JE. Approach to the patient with suspected arrhythmia. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 62.

## Review Date 5/16/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Arrhythmia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Arrhythmia_thumb.jpg)Arrhythmia
_Read more_

![Atrial
Fibrillation](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AtrialFib_thumb.jpg)Atrial
Fibrillation _Read more_

![Heart Health
Tests](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HeartHealthTest_thumb.jpg)Heart Health
Tests _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

