Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000186.htm    
                                Description: Multifocal atrial tachycardia (MAT) is a rapid heart rate. It occurs when too many signals (electrical impulses) are sent from the upper heart (atria) to the lower heart (ventricles).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Multifocal atrial tachycardia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000186.htm

# Multifocal atrial tachycardia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Multifocal atrial tachycardia (MAT) is a rapid heart rate. It occurs when too
many signals (electrical impulses) are sent from the upper heart (atria) to
the lower heart (ventricles).

## Causes

The human heart gives off electrical impulses, or signals, which tell it to
beat. Normally, these signals begin in an area of the upper right chamber
called the sinoatrial node (sinus node or SA node). This node is considered
the heart's "natural pacemaker." It helps control the heartbeat. When the
heart detects a signal, it contracts (or beats).

The normal heart rate in adults is about 60 to 100 beats per minute. The
normal heart rate is faster in children.

![Conduction system of the
heart](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/18052.jpg)

In MAT, many locations in the atria fire signals at the same time. Too many
signals lead to a rapid heart rate. It most often ranges between 100 to 130
beats per minute or more in adults. The rapid heart rate causes the heart to
work too hard and not move blood efficiently. If the heartbeat is very fast,
there is less time for the heart chamber to fill with blood between beats.
Therefore, not enough blood is pumped to the brain and the rest of the body
with each contraction.

MAT is most common in people age 50 and over. It is often seen in people with
conditions that lower the amount of oxygen in the blood. These conditions
include:

    * Bacterial pneumonia
    * Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)
    * Congestive heart failure
    * Lung cancer
    * Lung failure
    * Pulmonary embolism

You may be at higher risk for MAT if you have:

    * Coronary heart disease
    * Diabetes
    * Had surgery within the last 6 weeks
    * Overdosed on the drug theophylline
    * Sepsis 

When the heart rate is less than 100 beats per minute, the arrhythmia is
called "wandering atrial pacemaker."

## Symptoms

Some people may have no symptoms. When symptoms occur, they can include:

    * Chest tightness
    * Lightheadedness
    * Fainting
    * Sensation of feeling the heart is beating irregularly or too fast (palpitations)
    * Shortness of breath
    * Weight loss and failure to thrive in infants

Other symptoms that can occur with this disease:

    * Breathing difficulty when lying down
    * Dizziness

## Exams and Tests

A physical exam shows a fast irregular heartbeat of over 100 beats per minute.
Blood pressure is normal or low. There may be signs of poor circulation.

Tests to diagnose MAT include:

    * ECG
    * Electrophysiologic study (EPS) 

Heart monitors are used to record the rapid heartbeat. These include:

    * 24-hour Holter monitor
    * Portable, long-term loop recorders thatÂ allow you to start recording if symptoms occur 

If you are in the hospital, your heart rhythm will be monitored 24 hours a
day, at least at first.

## Treatment

If you have a condition that can lead to MAT, that condition should be treated
first.

Treatment for MAT includes:

    * Improving blood oxygen levels 
    * Giving magnesium or potassium through a vein 
    * Stopping medicines, such as theophylline, which can increase heart rate 
    * Taking medicines to slow the heart rate (if the heart rate is too fast), such as calcium channel blockers (verapamil, diltiazem) or beta-blockers 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

MAT can be controlled if the condition that causes the rapid heartbeat is
treated and controlled.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Cardiomyopathy
    * Congestive heart failure
    * Reduced pumping action of the heart

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if:

    * You have a rapid or irregular heartbeat with other MAT symptoms
    * You have MAT and your symptoms get worse, do not improve with treatment, or you develop new symptoms

## Prevention

To reduce the risk of developing MAT, treat the disorders that cause it right
away.

## Alternative Names

Chaotic atrial tachycardia

## Images

    * ![Heart - section through the middle](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1056t.jpg)Heart - section through the middle
    * ![Heart - front view](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1097t.jpg)Heart - front view
    * ![Conduction system of the heart](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18052t.jpg)Conduction system of the heart

## References

Olgin JE, Zipes DP. Supraventricular arrhythmias. In: Zipes DP, Libby P, Bonow
RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A
Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2018:chap 37.

Zimetbaum P. Cardiac arrhythmia with supraventricular origin. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 64.

## Review Date 5/16/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Arrhythmia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Arrhythmia_thumb.jpg)Arrhythmia
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

