Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000187.htm    
                                Description: Ventricular tachycardia (VT) is a rapid heartbeat that starts in the lower chambers of the heart (ventricles).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ventricular tachycardia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000187.htm

# Ventricular tachycardia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Ventricular tachycardia (VT) is a rapid heartbeat that starts in the lower
chambers of the heart (ventricles).

## Causes

VT is a pulse rate of more than 100 beats per minute, with at least 3
irregular heartbeats in a row.

The condition can develop as an early or late complication of a heart attack.
It may also occur in people with:

    * Cardiomyopathy
    * Heart failure
    * Heart surgery
    * Myocarditis
    * Valvular heart disease 

VT can occur without heart disease.

Scar tissue may form in the muscle of the ventricles days, months, or years
after a heart attack. This can lead to ventricular tachycardia.

VT can also be caused by:

    * Anti-arrhythmic drugs (used to treat an abnormal heart rhythm)
    * Changes in blood chemistry (such as a low potassium level)
    * Changes in pH (acid-base)
    * Lack of enough oxygen 

"Torsade de pointes" is a specific form of VT. It is often due to congenital
heart disease or the use of certain medicines.

## Symptoms

You may have symptoms if the heart rate during a VT episode is very fast or
lasts longer than a few seconds. Symptoms may include:

    * Chest discomfort (angina)
    * Fainting (syncope)
    * Lightheadedness or dizziness
    * Sensation of feeling the heart beat (palpitations)
    * Shortness of breath

Symptoms may start and stop suddenly. In some cases, there are no symptoms.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will look for:

    * Absent pulse
    * Loss of consciousness
    * Normal or low blood pressure
    * Rapid pulse

Tests that may be used to detect ventricular tachycardia include:

    * Holter monitor
    * ECG
    * Intracardiac electrophysiology study (EPS)
    * Rhythm monitoring with a loop recorder or device 

You may also have blood chemistries and other tests.

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the symptoms, and the type of heart disorder.

If someone with VT is in distress, they may require:

    * CPR
    * Cardioversion (electric shock)
    * Medicines (such as lidocaine, procainamide, sotalol, or amiodarone) given through a vein 

After an episode of VT, steps are taken to further episodes.

    * Medicines taken by mouth may be needed for long-term treatment. However, these drugs may have severe side effects. They are being used less often as other treatments are developed.
    * A procedure to destroy the heart tissue that is causing the abnormal heartbeat (called ablation) may be done.
    * An implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) may be recommended. It is an implanted device that detects any life-threatening, rapid heartbeat. This abnormal heartbeat is called an arrhythmia. If it occurs, the ICD quickly sends an electrical shock to the heart to change the rhythm back to normal. This is called defibrillation. 
![Implantable cardiac
defibrillator](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/22914.jpg)

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome depends on the heart condition and symptoms.

## Possible Complications

Ventricular tachycardia may not cause symptoms in some people. However, it can
be deadly. It is a major cause of sudden cardiac death.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Go to the emergency room or call the local emergency number (such as 911) if
you have a rapid, irregular pulse, faint, or have chest pain. All of these may
be signs of ventricular tachycardia.

## Prevention

In some cases, the disorder cannot be prevented. In other cases, it can be
prevented by treating heart problems and avoiding certain medicines.

## Alternative Names

Wide-complex tachycardia; V tach; Tachycardia - ventricular

## Patient Instructions

    * Implantable cardioverter defibrillator - discharge

## Images

    * ![Implantable cardioverter-defibrillator](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/21739t.jpg)Implantable cardioverter-defibrillator
    * ![Implantable cardiac defibrillator](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22914t.jpg)Implantable cardiac defibrillator

## References

Epstein EF, DiMarco JP, Ellenbogen KA, Estes NA 3rd, et al.Â 2012 ACCF/AHA/HRS
focused update incorporated into the ACCF/AHA/HRS 2008 guidelines for device-
based therapy of cardiac rhythm abnormalities: a report of the American
College of Cardiology Foundation/American Heart Association Task Force on
Practice Guidelines and the Heart Rhythm Society. _J Am Coll Cardiol_.
2013;661(3):e6-75. PMID: 23265327 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23265327.

Garan H. Ventricular arrhythmias. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 65.

Olgin JE, Tomaselli GF, Zipes DP. Ventricular Arrhythmias. In: Zipes DP, Libby
P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart
Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2018:chap 39.

## Review Date 5/16/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Arrhythmia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Arrhythmia_thumb.jpg)Arrhythmia
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

