Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001379.htm    
                                Description: Kuru is a disease of the nervous system.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Kuru

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001379.htm

# Kuru

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Kuru is a disease of the nervous system.

## Causes

Kuru is a very rare disease. It is caused by an infectious protein (prion)
found in contaminated human brain tissue.

Kuru is found among people from New Guinea who practiced a form of cannibalism
in which they ate the brains of dead people as part of a funeral ritual. This
practice stopped in 1960, but cases of kuru were reported for many years
afterward because the disease has a long incubation period. The incubation
period is the time it takes for symptoms to appear after being exposed to the
agent that causes disease.

Kuru causes brain and nervous system changes similar to Creutzfeldt-Jakob
disease. Similar diseases appear in cows as bovine spongiform encephalopathy
(BSE), also called mad cow disease.

The main risk factor for kuru is eating human brain tissue, which can contain
the infectious particles.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of kuru include:

    * Arm and leg pain
    * Coordination problems that become severe
    * Difficulty walking
    * Headache
    * Swallowing difficulty
    * Tremors and muscle jerks 

Difficulty swallowing and being unable to feed oneself can lead to
malnutrition or starvation.

The average incubation period is 10 to 13 years, but incubation period of 50
years or even longer have also been reported.

## Exams and Tests

A neurologic exam may show changes in coordination and walking ability.

## Treatment

There is no known treatment for kuru.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Death usually occurs within 1 year after the first sign of symptoms.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

See your health care provider if you have any walking, swallowing, or
coordination problems. Kuru is extremely rare. Your provider will rule out
other nervous system diseases.

## Alternative Names

Prion disease - kuru

## Images

    * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system

## References

Bosque PJ, Tyler KL. Prions and prion diseases of the central nervous system
(transmissible neurodegenerative diseases). In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser
MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 181.

Geschwind MD. Prion diseases. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy
SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 94.

## Review Date 12/1/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Creutzfeldt-Jakob
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CreutzfeldtJakobDisease_thumb.jpg)Creutzfeldt-
Jakob Disease _Read more_

![Degenerative Nerve
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DegenerativeNerveDiseases_thumb.jpg)Degenerative
Nerve Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

