Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000788.htm    
                                Description: Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) is a form of brain damage that leads to a rapid decrease in movement and loss of mental function.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000788.htm

# Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) is a form of brain damage that leads to a
rapid decrease in movement and loss of mental function.

## Causes

CJD is caused by a protein called a prion. A prion causes normal proteins to
fold abnormally. This affects other proteins' ability to function.

CJD is very rare. There are several types. The classic types of CJD are:

    * Sporadic CJD makes up most cases. It occurs for no known reason. The average age at which it starts is 65.
    * Familial CJD occurs when a person inherits the abnormal prion from a parent (this form of CJD is rare).
    * Acquired CJD includes variant CJD (vCJD), the form related to mad cow disease. Iatrogenic CJD is also an acquired form of the disease. Iatrogenic CJD is sometimes passed through a blood product transfusion, transplant, or contaminated surgical instruments. 

Variant CJD is caused by eating infected meat. The infection that causes the
disease in cows is believed to be the same one that causes vCJD in humans.

Variant CJD causes less than 1 percent of all CJD cases. It tends to affect
younger people. Fewer than 200 people worldwide have had this disease. Almost
all cases occurred in England and France.

CJD may be related to several other diseases caused by prions, including:

    * Chronic wasting disease (found in deer)
    * Kuru (affected mostly women in New Guinea who ate the brains of dead relatives as part of a funeral ritual)
    * Scrapie (found in sheep)
    * Other very rare inherited human diseases, such as Gerstmann-Straussler-Scheinker disease and fatal familial insomnia 

## Symptoms

CJD symptoms may include any of the following:

    * Dementia that gets worse quickly over a few weeks or months
    * Blurred vision (sometimes)
    * Changes in gait (walking)
    * Confusion, disorientation
    * Hallucinations (seeing or hearing things that aren't there)
    * Lack of coordination (for example, stumbling and falling)
    * Muscle stiffness, twitching
    * Feeling nervous, jumpy
    * Personality changes
    * Sleepiness
    * Sudden jerky movements or seizures
    * Trouble speaking 

## Exams and Tests

Early in the disease, a nervous system and mental examination will show memory
and thinking problems. Later in the disease, a motor system examination (an
exam to test muscle reflexes, strength, coordination, and other physical
functions) may show:

    * Abnormal reflexes or increased normal reflex responses
    * Increase in muscle tone
    * Muscle twitching and spasms
    * Strong startle response
    * Weakness and loss of muscle tissue (muscle wasting) 

There is a loss of coordination and changes in the cerebellum. This is the
area of the brain that controls coordination.

An eye exam shows areas of blindness that the person may not notice.

Tests used to diagnose this condition may include:

    * Blood tests to rule out other forms of dementia and to look for markers that sometimes occur with the disease
    * CT scan of the brain
    * Electroencephalogram (EEG)
    * MRI of the brain
    * Spinal tap to test for a protein called 14-3-3 

The disease can only be confirmed with a brain biopsy or autopsy. Today, it is
very rare for a brain biopsy to be done to look for this disease.

## Treatment

There is no known cure for this condition. Different medicines have been tried
to slow the disease. These include antibiotics, drugs for epilepsy, blood
thinners, antidepressants, and interferon. But none works well.

The goal of treatment is to provide a safe environment, control aggressive or
agitated behavior, and meet the person's needs. This may require monitoring
and assistance in the home or in a care facility. Family counseling may help
the family cope with the changes needed for home care.

People with this condition may need help controlling unacceptable or dangerous
behaviors. This involves rewarding positive behaviors and ignoring negative
behaviors (when it is safe). They may also need help getting oriented to their
surroundings. Sometimes, medicines are needed to help control aggression.

Persons with CJD and their family may need to seek legal advice early in the
course of the disorder. Advance directive, power of attorney, and other legal
actions can make it easier to make decisions about the care of the person with
CJD.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome of CJD is very poor. People with sporadic CJD are unable to care
for themselves within 6 months or less after symptoms begin.

The disorder is fatal in a short time, usually within 8 months. People who
have variant CJD get worse more slowly, but the condition is still fatal. A
few people survive for as long as 1 or 2 years. The cause of death is usually
infection, heart failure, or respiratory failure.

The course of CJD is:

    * Infection with the disease
    * Severe malnutrition
    * Dementia in some cases
    * Loss of ability to interact with others
    * Loss of ability to function or care for oneself
    * Death

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

CJD is not a medical emergency. However, getting diagnosed and treated early
may make the symptoms easier to control, give patients time to make advance
directives and prepare for the end of life, and give families extra time to
come to terms with the condition.

## Prevention

Medical equipment that may be contaminated should be removed from service and
disposed of. People known to have CJD should not donate a cornea or other body
tissue.

Most countries now have strict guidelines for managing infected cows to avoid
transmitting CJD to humans.

## Alternative Names

Transmissible spongiform encephalopathy; vCJD; CJD; Jacob-Creutzfeldt disease

## Images

    * ![Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17146t.jpg)Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease
    * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system

## References

Bosque PJ, Tyler KL. Prions and prion disease of the central nervous system
(transmissible neurodegenerative diseases). In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser
MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 179.

Geschwind MD. Prion diseases. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy
SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 94.

## Review Date 6/23/2019

Updated by: Alireza Minagar, MD, MBA, Professor, Department of Neurology, LSU
Health Sciences Center, Shreveport, LA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Creutzfeldt-Jakob
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CreutzfeldtJakobDisease_thumb.jpg)Creutzfeldt-
Jakob Disease _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

