Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000566.htm    
                                Description: Vaginitis is a swelling or infection of the vulva and vagina. It may also be called vulvovaginitis.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Vaginitis - self-care

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000566.htm

# Vaginitis - self-care

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Vaginitis is a swelling or infection of the vulva and vagina. It may also be
called vulvovaginitis.

Vaginitis is a common problem that can affect women and girls of all ages. It
can be caused by:

    * Yeast, bacteria, viruses, and parasites
    * Bubble baths, soaps, vaginal contraceptives, feminine sprays, and perfumes (chemicals)
    * Menopause
    * Not washing well 

## Self-care for Vaginitis

Keep your genital area clean and dry when you have vaginitis.

    * Avoid soap and just rinse with water to clean yourself.
    * Soak in a warm bath -- not a hot one.
    * Dry thoroughly afterward. Pat the area dry, don't rub. 

Avoid douching. Douching may worsen vaginitis symptoms because it removes
healthy bacteria that line the vagina. These bacteria help protect against
infection.

    * Avoid using hygiene sprays, fragrances, or powders in the genital area.
    * Use pads and not tampons while you have an infection.
    * If you have diabetes, keep your blood sugar levels under control. 

Allow more air to reach your genital area.

    * Wear loose-fitting clothes and not panty hose.
    * Wear cotton underwear (rather than synthetic), or underwear that has a cotton lining in the crotch. Cotton increases air flow and decreases moisture buildup.
    * DO NOT wear underwear at night when you sleep. 

Girls and women should also:

    * Know how to properly clean their genital area while bathing or showering
    * Wipe properly after using the toilet -- always from front to back
    * Wash thoroughly before and after using the bathroom 

Always practice safe sex. And use condoms to avoid catching or spreading
infections.

## Treating Yeast Infections

Creams or suppositories are used to treat yeast infections in the vagina. You
can buy most of them without a prescription at drug stores, some grocery
stores, and other stores.

Treating yourself at home is probably safe if:

    * You have had a yeast infection before and know the symptoms, but you have not had a lot of yeast infections in the past.
    * Your symptoms are mild and you DO NOT have pelvic pain or a fever.
    * You are not pregnant.
    * It is not possible that you have another kind of infection from recent sexual contact. 

Follow the directions that came with the medicine you are using.

    * Use the medicine for 3 to 7 days, depending on what kind of medicine you are using.
    * DO NOT stop using the medicine early if your symptoms go away before you have used it all. 

Some medicine to treat yeast infections is used for only 1 day. If you DO NOT
get yeast infections often, a 1-day medicine might work for you.

Your health care provider can also prescribe a medicine called fluconazole.
This medicine is a pill that you take once by mouth.

For more severe symptoms, you may need to use the yeast medicine for up to 14
days. If you have yeast infections often, your provider may suggest using
medicine for yeast infections every week to prevent infections.

If you are taking antibiotics for another infection, eating yogurt with live
cultures or taking _Lactobacillus acidophilus_ supplements may help prevent a
yeast infection.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

    * Your symptoms are not improving
    * You have pelvic pain or a fever

## Alternative Names

Vulvovaginitis - self-care; Yeast infections - vaginitis

## References

Gardella C, Eckert LO, Lentz GM. Genital tract infections: vulva, vagina,
cervix, toxic shock syndrome, endometritis, and salpingitis. In: Lobo RA,
Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 23.

Hoefgen HR, Merritt DF. Vulvovaginitis. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme
JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 549.

## Review Date 4/19/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Vaginitis

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

