Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/bacterial-vaginosis-test/    
                                Description: This test checks for bacterial vaginosis (BV), an infection of the vagina. Usually the infection is mild, but sometimes it causes complications. A BV test can help you get treated so you can avoid serious health problems. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Bacterial Vaginosis Test

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/bacterial-vaginosis-test/

# Bacterial Vaginosis Test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a bacterial vaginosis (BV) test?

Bacterial vaginosis (BV) is an infection of the vagina. A healthy vagina
contains a balance of both "good" (healthy) and "bad" (unhealthy) bacteria.
Normally, the good type of bacteria keeps the bad type under control. A BV
infection happens when the normal balance is upset and more bad bacteria grow
than good bacteria.

Most BV infections are mild and sometimes go away on their own. Some women get
BV and recover without even knowing they were infected. But BV infections can
be more serious and may not clear up without treatment. Untreated BV may
increase your risk of getting a sexually transmitted disease (STD), such as
chlamydia, gonorrhea, or HIV.

If you are pregnant and have a BV infection, it can increase your risk of
having a premature (early) delivery or having a baby with a lower than normal
birth weight (less than 5 pounds, 8 ounces at birth). Low birth weight can
cause serious health problems in a baby, including infections, breathing
difficulties, and troubles with feeding and gaining weight.

A BV test can help you get diagnosed and treated so you can avoid these
serious health problems.

Other names: vaginal pH test, KOH test, wet mount test

## What is it used for?

This test is used to diagnose BV infections.

## Why do I need a BV test?

You may need testing if you have symptoms of BV. These include:

    * A gray or white vaginal discharge
    * A strong, fish-like odor, which may be worse after sex
    * Pain and/or itching in the vagina
    * Burning sensation when urinating

## What happens during a BV test?

A BV test is done in a similar way as a pelvic exam or Pap smear. During the
test,

    * You will take off your clothes below your waist. You will get a gown or sheet as a cover.
    * You will lie on your back on an exam table, with your feet in stirrups.
    * Your health care provider will insert a special tool called a speculum into your vagina. The speculum gently spreads apart the sides of your vagina.
    * Your provider will use a cotton swab or wooden stick to collect a sample of your vaginal discharge.

The discharge will be looked at under a microscope to check for signs of
infection.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You should not use tampons, douche, or have sex for at least 24 hours before
your test.

## Are there any risks to the test?

You may feel some mild discomfort when the speculum is put in your vagina.

## What do the results mean?

If your results show you have a BV infection, your health care provider will
probably prescribe antibiotic pills and/or antibiotic creams or gels that you
can put directly into your vagina.

Sometimes a BV infection will come back after successful treatment. If this
happens, your provider may prescribe different medicine or a different dose of
the medicine you took before.

If you are diagnosed with BV and are pregnant, it's important to treat the
infection, because it can cause health problems for your unborn baby. Your
health care provider will prescribe an antibiotic treatment that will be safe
to take during pregnancy.

If your results show no BV bacteria, your health care provider may do more
tests to find out the cause of your symptoms.

If you have questions about your results, talk to your health care provider.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about a BV test?

BV is not spread through female-to-male sexual contact. So if you are
diagnosed with BV and have a male sexual partner, he will not need to be
tested. But the infection can be spread between female sexual partners. If you
have an infection and your partner is female, she should get a BV test.

Researchers aren't sure what causes BV, but there are steps you can take that
may lower your risk of infection. These include:

    * Don't use douches
    * Limit your number of sex partners
    * Practice safe sex

## References

    1. ACOG: Womenâs Healthcare Physicians [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists; c2019. FAQ: Vaginitis; 2017 Sep [cited 2019 Mar 25]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.acog.org/Patients/FAQs/Vaginitis
    2. American Pregnancy Association [Internet]. Irving (TX): American Pregnancy Association; c2019. Bacterial Vaginosis During Pregnancy [updated 2015 Aug; cited 2019 Mar 25]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://americanpregnancy.org/pregnancy-complications/bacterial-vaginosis-during-pregnancy
    3. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Internet]. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Bacterial VaginosisâCDC Fact Sheet [cited 2019 Mar 25]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/std/bv/stdfact-bacterial-vaginosis.htm
    4. Childrenâs Hospital of Philadelphia [Internet]. Philadelphia: The Childrenâs Hospital of Philadelphia; c2019. Low Birth Weight [cited 2019 Mar 26]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.chop.edu/conditions-diseases/low-birthweight
    5. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2019. Vaginitis and Vaginosis [updated 2018 Jul 23; cited 2019 Mar 24]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/conditions/vaginitis-and-vaginosis
    6. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2019. Bacterial Vaginosis: Diagnosis and Treatment; 2017 Jul 29 [cited 2019 Mar 25]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/bacterial-vaginosis/diagnosis-treatment/drc-20352285
    7. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2019. Bacterial Vaginosis: Symptoms and Causes; 2017 Jul 29 [cited 2019 Mar 25]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/bacterial-vaginosis/symptoms-causes/syc-20352279
    8. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2019. Pregnancy week by week; 2017 Oct 10 [cited 2019 Mar 25]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/healthy-lifestyle/pregnancy-week-by-week/expert-answers/antibiotics-and-pregnancy/faq-20058542
    9. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida Health; c2019. Bacterial vaginosis aftercare: Description [updated 2019 Mar 25; cited 2019 Mar 25]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/bacterial-vaginosis-aftercare
    10. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Bacterial Vaginosis: Prevention [updated 2017 Oct 6; cited 2019 Mar 25]; [about 10 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/major/bacterial-infection/hw53097.html#hw53185
    11. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Bacterial Vaginosis: Symptoms [updated 2017 Oct 6; cited 2019 Mar 25]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/major/bacterial-infection/hw53097.html#hw53123
    12. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Bacterial Vaginosis: Topic Overview [updated 2017 Oct 6; cited 2019 Mar 25]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/major/bacterial-infection/hw53097.html#hw53099
    13. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Bacterial Vaginosis: Treatment Overview [updated 2017 Oct 6; cited 2019 Mar 25]; [about 9 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/major/bacterial-infection/hw53097.html#hw53177
    14. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Bacterial Vaginosis: What Increases Your Risk [updated 2017 Oct 6; cited 2019 Mar 25]; [about 6 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/major/bacterial-infection/hw53097.html#hw53140
    15. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Tests for Bacterial Vaginosis: How It Feels [updated 2017 Oct 6; cited 2019 Mar 25]; [about 6 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/tests-for-bacterial-vaginosis-bv/hw3367.html#hw3398
    16. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Tests for Bacterial Vaginosis: How It Is Done [updated 2017 Oct 6; cited 2019 Mar 25]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/tests-for-bacterial-vaginosis-bv/hw3367.html#hw3394
    17. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Tests for Bacterial Vaginosis: How To Prepare [updated 2017 Oct 6; cited 2019 Mar 25]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/tests-for-bacterial-vaginosis-bv/hw3367.html#hw3391
    18. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Tests for Bacterial Vaginosis: Risks [updated 2017 Oct 6; cited 2019 Mar 25]; [about 7 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/tests-for-bacterial-vaginosis-bv/hw3367.html#hw3400
    19. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Health Information: Tests for Bacterial Vaginosis: Why It Is Done [updated 2017 Oct 6; cited 2019 Mar 25]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/tests-for-bacterial-vaginosis-bv/hw3367.html#hw3389

## Related Health Topics

    * Antibiotics
    * Bacterial Infections
    * Infections and Pregnancy
    * Pregnancy and Medicines
    * Sexually Transmitted Diseases
    * Vaginal Diseases
    * Women's Health Checkup

## Related Lab Test Information

    * How to Understand Your Lab Results
    * Pap Smear

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 24 February 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

