Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001511.htm    
                                Description: Vaginal yeast infection is an infection of the vagina. It is most commonly due to the fungus Candida albicans.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Vaginal yeast infection

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001511.htm

# Vaginal yeast infection

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Vaginal yeast infection is an infection of the vagina. It is most commonly due
to the fungus _Candida albicans_.

## Causes

Most women have a vaginal yeast infection at some time. _Candida albicans_ is
a common type of fungus. It is often found in small amounts in the vagina,
mouth, digestive tract, and on the skin. Most of the time, it does not cause
infection or symptoms.

Candida and the many other germs that normally live in the vagina keep each
other in balance. Sometimes the number of candida increases. This leads to a
yeast infection.

This can happen if:

    * You are taking antibiotics used to treat another infection. Antibiotics change the normal balance between germs in the vagina.
    * You are pregnant
    * You are obese
    * You have diabetes

A yeast infection is not spread through sexual contact. However, some men may
develop symptoms after having sexual contact with an infected partner. These
symptoms may include itching, rash or irritation of the penis.

Having many vaginal yeast infections may be a sign of other health problems.
Other vaginal infections and discharges can be mistaken for a vaginal yeast
infection.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

    * Abnormal vaginal discharge. Discharge can range from slightly watery, white discharge to thick, white, and chunky (like cottage cheese).
    * Itching and burning of the vagina and labia
    * Pain with intercourse
    * Painful urination
    * Redness and swelling of the skin just outside of the vagina (vulva)

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will do a pelvic exam. It may show:

    * Swelling and redness of the skin of the vulva, in the vagina, and on the cervix 
    * Dry, white spots on the vaginal wall
    * Cracks in the skin of the vulva

A small amount of the vaginal discharge is examined using a microscope. This
is called a wet mount and KOH test.

Sometimes, a culture is taken if:

    * The infection does not get better with treatment
    * The infection recurs

Your provider may order other tests to rule out other causes of your symptoms.

## Treatment

Medicines to treat vaginal yeast infections are available as creams,
ointments, vaginal tablets or suppositories and oral tablets. Most can be
bought without needing to see your provider.

Treating yourself at home is probably OK if:

    * Your symptoms are mild and you do not have pelvic pain or a fever
    * This is not your first yeast infection and you have not had many yeast infections in the past
    * You are not pregnant
    * You are not worried about other sexually transmitted infections (STI) from recent sexual contact 

Medicines you can buy yourself to treat a vaginal yeast infection are:

    * Miconazole
    * Clotrimazole
    * Tioconazole
    * Butoconazole 

When using these medicines:

    * Read the packages carefully and use them as directed.
    * You will need to take the medicine for 1 to 7 days, depending on which medicine you buy. (If you do not get repeated infections, a 1-day medicine might work for you.)
    * Do not stop using these medicines early because your symptoms are better. 

You doctor can also prescribe a pill that you only take by mouth once.

If your symptoms are worse or you get vaginal yeast infections often, you may
need:

    * Medicine for up to 14 days
    * Azole vaginal cream or fluconazole pill every week to prevent new infections 

To help prevent and treat vaginal discharge:

    * Keep your genital area clean and dry. Avoid soap and rinse with water only. Sitting in a warm, but not hot, bath may help your symptoms.
    * Avoid douching. Although many women feel cleaner if they douche after their period or intercourse, it may worsen vaginal discharge. Douching removes healthy bacteria lining the vagina that protect against infection.
    * Eat yogurt with live cultures or take _Lactobacillus acidophilus_ tablets when you are on antibiotics. This may help to prevent a yeast infection.
    * Use condoms to avoid catching or spreading other infections.
    * Avoid using feminine hygiene sprays, fragrances, or powders in the genital area.
    * Avoid wearing tight-fitting pants or shorts. These may cause irritation and sweating.
    * Wear cotton underwear or cotton-crotch pantyhose. Avoid underwear made of silk or nylon. These can increase sweating in the genital area, which leads to growth of more yeast.
    * Keep your blood sugar level under good control if you have diabetes.
    * Avoid wearing wet bathing suits or exercise clothing for long periods of time. Wash sweaty or wet clothes after each use. 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most of the time, symptoms go away completely with proper treatment.

## Possible Complications

A lot of scratching may cause the skin to crack, making you more likely to get
a skin infection.

A woman may have diabetes or weak immune system (such as in HIV) if:

    * The infection recurs right after treatment
    * The yeast infection does not respond well to treatment

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * This is the first time that you have had symptoms of a vaginal yeast infection.
    * You are not sure if you have a yeast infection.
    * Your symptoms don't go away after using over-the-counter medicines.
    * Your symptoms get worse.
    * You develop other symptoms.
    * You may have been exposed to an STI.

## Alternative Names

Yeast infection - vagina; Vaginal candidiasis; Monilial vaginitis

## Images

    * ![Candida - fluorescent stain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1053t.jpg)Candida - fluorescent stain
    * ![Female reproductive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1112t.jpg)Female reproductive anatomy
    * ![Yeast infections](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17141t.jpg)Yeast infections
    * ![Secondary infection](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17233t.jpg)Secondary infection
    * ![Uterus](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19263t.jpg)Uterus
    * ![Normal uterine anatomy \(cut section\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8608t.jpg)Normal uterine anatomy (cut section)

## References

Gardella C, Eckert LO, Lentz GM. Genital tract infections: vulva, vagina,
cervix, toxic shock syndrome, endometritis, and salpingitis. In: Lobo RA,
Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 23.

Habif TP. Superficial fungal infections. In: Habif TP, ed. _Clinical
Dermatology: A Color Guide to Diagnosis and Therapy_. 6th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 13.

Kauffman CA, Pappas PG. Candidiasis. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 318.

Oquendo Del Toro HM, Hoefgen HR. Vulvovaginitis. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW,
Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_.
21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 564.

## Review Date 6/30/2019

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Vaginitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Vaginitis2_thumb.jpg)Vaginitis
_Read more_

![Yeast
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/YeastInfection_thumb.jpg)Yeast
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

