Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000897.htm    
                                Description: Vulvovaginitis or vaginitis is swelling or infection of the vulva and vagina.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Vulvovaginitis - overview

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000897.htm

# Vulvovaginitis - overview

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Vulvovaginitis or vaginitis is swelling or infection of the vulva and vagina.

Vaginitis is a common problem that can affect women and girls of all ages.

## Causes

INFECTIONS

Yeast infections are one of the most common causes of vulvovaginitis in women.

    * Yeast infections are most often due to the fungus _Candida albicans_.
    * Candida and the many other germs that normally live in the vagina keep each other in balance. However, sometimes the number of candida increases. This leads to a yeast infection.
    * Yeast infections often cause genital itching, a thick white vaginal discharge, and other symptoms. 

The vagina normally contains both healthy bacteria and unhealthy bacteria.
Bacterial vaginosis (BV) occurs when more unhealthy bacteria than healthy
bacteria grow. BV may cause a thin, gray vaginal discharge and a fishy odor.

A less common type of vaginitis is spread by sexual contact. It is called
trichomoniasis. Symptoms in women include genital itching, vaginal odor, and a
heavy vaginal discharge that may be yellow-gray or green in color.

OTHER CAUSES

Chemicals can cause itchy rashes in the genital area.

    * Spermicides and vaginal sponges, which are over-the-counter birth control methods
    * Feminine sprays and perfumes
    * Bubble baths and soaps 

Low estrogen levels in women after menopause can cause vaginal dryness and
thinning of the skin of the vagina and vulva. These factors may lead to or
worsen genital itching and burning.

Other causes include:

    * Tight-fitting or nonabsorbent clothing, which leads to heat rashes.
    * Skin conditions.
    * Objects such as a lost tampon can also cause irritation, itching, and strong-smelling discharge. 

Sometimes, the exact cause cannot be found. This is called nonspecific
vulvovaginitis.

    * It occurs in all age groups. However, it is most common in young girls before puberty, particularly girls with poor genital hygiene.
    * It causes a foul-smelling, brownish-green discharge and irritation of the labia and vaginal opening.
    * This condition is often linked with excess growth of bacteria that are typically found in the stool. These bacteria are sometimes spread from the rectum to the vaginal area by wiping from back to front after using the toilet. 

Irritated tissue is more likely to become infected than healthy tissue. Many
germs that cause infection thrive in a warm, damp, and dark environment. This
can also lead to a longer recovery.

Sexual abuse should be considered in young girls with unusual infections and
repeated episodes of unexplained vulvovaginitis.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

    * Irritation and itching of the genital area
    * Inflammation (irritation, redness, and swelling) of the genital area
    * Vaginal discharge
    * Foul vaginal odor
    * Discomfort or burning when urinating 

## Exams and Tests

If you have had a yeast infection in the past and know the symptoms, you can
try treatment with over-the-counter products. However, if your symptoms do not
completely go away in about a week, contact your health care provider. Many
other infections have similar symptoms.

The provider will perform a pelvic examination. This exam may show red, tender
areas on the vulva or vagina.

A wet prep is usually done to identify a vaginal infection or overgrowth of
yeast or bacteria. This includes examining vaginal discharge under a
microscope. In some cases, a culture of the vaginal discharge may help find
out the germ that is causing the infection.

A biopsy (a test of the tissue) of the irritated area on the vulva may be done
if there are no signs of infection.

## Treatment

Creams or suppositories are used to treat yeast infections in the vagina. You
can buy most of them over-the-counter. Follow the directions that came with
the medicine you are using.

There are many treatments for vaginal dryness. Before treating your symptoms
on your own, see a provider who can find the cause of the problem.

If you have BV or trichomoniasis, your provider may prescribe:

    * Antibiotic pills that you swallow
    * Antibiotic creams that you insert into your vagina 

Other medicines that may help include:

    * Cortisone cream
    * Antihistamine pills to help with itching 

Be sure to use the medicine exactly as prescribed and follow the instructions
on the label.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Proper treatment of an infection is effective in most cases.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You have symptoms of vulvovaginitis
    * You do not get relief from the treatment you receive for vulvovaginitis

## Prevention

Keep your genital area clean and dry when you have vaginitis.

    * Avoid soap. Just rinse with water to clean yourself.
    * Soak in a warm, not hot, bath to help your symptoms. Dry thoroughly afterward.

Avoid douching. Many women feel cleaner when they douche, but it may actually
make symptoms worse because it removes healthy bacteria that line the vagina.
These bacteria help protect against infection.

Other tips are:

    * Avoid using hygiene sprays, fragrances, or powders in the genital area.
    * Use pads instead of tampons while you have an infection.
    * If you have diabetes, keep your blood sugar level in good control.

Allow more air to reach your genital area. You can do this by:

    * Wearing loose-fitting clothes and not wearing panty hose.
    * Wearing cotton underwear (instead of synthetic fabrics) or underwear that has a cotton lining in the crotch. Cotton allows normal evaporation of moisture so that moisture buildup is reduced.
    * Not wearing underwear at night when you sleep.

Girls and women should also:

    * Know how to properly clean their genital area while bathing or showering.
    * Wipe properly after using the toilet. Always wipe from front to back.
    * Wash thoroughly before and after using the toilet.

Always practice safe sex. Use condoms to avoid catching or spreading
infections.

## Alternative Names

Vaginitis; Vaginal inflammation; Inflammation of the vagina; Nonspecific
vaginitis

## Images

    * ![Female perineal anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9073t.jpg)Female perineal anatomy

## References

Braverman PK. Urethritis, vulvovaginitis, and cervicitis. In: Long SS, Prober
CG, Fischer M, eds. _Principles and Practice of Pediatric Infectious
Diseases_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 51.

Gardella C, Eckert LO, Lentz GM. Genital tract infections: vulva, vagina,
cervix, toxic shock syndrome, endometritis, and salpingitis. In: Lobo RA,
Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 23.

Hoefgen HR, Meritt DF. Vulvovaginitis. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme
JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 549.

McCormack WM, Augenbraun MH. Vulvovaginitis and cervicitis. In: Bennett JE,
Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and
Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 110.

## Review Date 4/19/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Vaginitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Vaginitis2_thumb.jpg)Vaginitis
_Read more_

![Vulvar
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VulvarDisorders_thumb.jpg)Vulvar
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

