Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001660.htm    
                                Description: Trisomy 13 (also called Patau syndrome) is a genetic disorder in which a person hasÂ 3 copies of genetic material from chromosome 13, instead of the usualÂ 2 copies. Rarely, the extra material may be attached    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Trisomy 13

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001660.htm

# Trisomy 13

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Trisomy 13 (also called Patau syndrome) is a genetic disorder in which a
person hasÂ 3 copies of genetic material from chromosome 13, instead of the
usualÂ 2 copies. Rarely, the extra material may be attached to another
chromosome (translocation).

## Causes

Trisomy 13 occurs when extra DNA from chromosome 13 appears in some or all of
the body's cells.

    * Trisomy 13: the presence of an extra (third) chromosome 13 in all of the cells. 
    * Mosaic trisomy 13: the presence of an extra chromosome 13 in some of the cells. 
    * Partial trisomy 13: the presence of a part of an extra chromosome 13 in the cells. 

The extra material interferes with normal development.

Trisomy 13 occurs in about 1 out of every 10,000 newborns. Most cases are not
passed down through families (inherited). Instead, the events that lead to
trisomy 13 occur in either the sperm or the egg that forms the fetus.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

    * Cleft lip or palate
    * Clenched hands (with outer fingers on top of the inner fingers)
    * Close-set eyes -- eyes may actually fuse together into one
    * Decreased muscle tone
    * Extra fingers or toes (polydactyly)
    * Hernias: umbilical hernia, inguinal hernia
    * Hole, split, or cleft in the iris (coloboma)
    * Low-set ears
    * Intellectual disability, severe
    * Scalp defects (missing skin)
    * Seizures
    * Single palmar crease
    * Skeletal (limb) abnormalities
    * Small eyes
    * Small head (microcephaly)
    * Small lower jaw (micrognathia)
    * Undescended testicle (cryptorchidism)

## Exams and Tests

The infant may have a single umbilical artery at birth. There are often signs
of congenital heart disease, such as:

    * Abnormal placement of the heart toward the right side of the chest instead of the left
    * Atrial septal defect
    * Patent ductus arteriosus
    * Ventricular septal defect

Gastrointestinal x-rays or ultrasound may show rotation of the internal
organs.

MRI or CT scans of the head may reveal a problem with the structure of the
brain. The problem is called holoprosencephaly. It is the joining together of
the 2 sides of the brain.

Chromosome studies show trisomy 13, trisomy 13 mosaicism, or partial trisomy.

## Treatment

There is no specific treatment for trisomy 13. Treatment varies from child to
child and depends on the specific symptoms.

## Support Groups

Support groups for trisomy 13 include:

    * Support Organization for Trisomy 18, 13 and Related Disorders (SOFT): trisomy.org
    * Hope for Trisomy 13 and 18: www.hopefortrisomy13and18.org

## Outlook (Prognosis)

More than 90% of children with trisomy 13 die in the first year.

## Possible Complications

Complications begin almost immediately. Most infants with trisomy 13 have
congenital heart disease.

Complications may include:

    * Breathing difficulty or lack of breathing (apnea)
    * Deafness
    * Feeding problems
    * Heart failure
    * Seizures
    * Vision problems

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have had a child with trisomy 13 and you
plan to have another child. Genetic counseling can help families understand
the condition, the risk of inheriting it, and how to care for the person.

## Prevention

Trisomy 13 can be diagnosed before birth by amniocentesis with chromosome
studies of the amniotic cells.

Parents of infants with trisomy 13 that is caused by a translocation should
have genetic testing and counseling. This may help them be aware of the
chances of having another child with the condition.

## Alternative Names

Patau syndrome

## Images

    * ![Polydactyly - an infant's hand](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1719t.jpg)Polydactyly - an infant's hand
    * ![Syndactyly](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1763t.jpg)Syndactyly

## References

Bacino CA, Lee B. Cytogenetics. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah
SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 98.

Madan-Khetarpal S, Arnold G. Genetic disorders and dysmorphic conditions. In:
Zitelli BJ, McIntire SC, Nowalk AJ, eds. _Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of
Pediatric Physical Diagnosis_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap
1.

## Review Date 7/29/2019

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Birth Defects](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BirthDefect_thumb.jpg)Birth
Defects _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

