Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000234.htm    
                                Description: A Meckel diverticulum is a pouch on the wall of the lower part of the small intestine that is present at birth (congenital). The diverticulum may contain tissue similar to that of the stomach or pancreas.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Meckel diverticulum

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000234.htm

# Meckel diverticulum

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A Meckel diverticulum is a pouch on the wall of the lower part of the small
intestine that is present at birth (congenital). The diverticulum may contain
tissue similar to that of the stomach or pancreas.

## Causes

A Meckel diverticulum is tissue left over from when the baby's digestive tract
was forming before birth. A small number of people have a Meckel diverticulum.
However, only a few develop symptoms.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

    * Pain in the abdomen that can be mild or severe
    * Blood in the stool
    * Nausea and vomiting

Symptoms often occur during the first few years of life. However, they may not
start until adulthood.

## Exams and Tests

You may have the following tests:

    * Hematocrit
    * Hemoglobin
    * Stool smear for invisible blood (stool occult blood test)
    * CT scan
    * Technetium scan (also called a Meckel scan)

## Treatment

You may need surgery to remove the diverticulum if bleeding develops. The
segment of small intestine that contains the diverticulum is taken out. The
ends of the intestine are sewn back together.

You may need to take iron supplements to treat anemia. You may need a blood
transfusion if you have a lot of bleeding,

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most people recover fully from surgery and will not have the problem come
back. Complications from the surgery are also unlikely.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Excess bleeding (hemorrhage) from the diverticulum
    * Folding of the intestines (intussusception), a type of blockage
    * Peritonitis
    * Tear (perforation) of the bowel at the diverticulum 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

See your health care provider right away if your child passes blood or bloody
stool or has ongoing abdominal pain.

## Images

    * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
    * ![Digestive system organs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8710t.jpg)Digestive system organs
    * ![Meckel's diverticulectomy - normal anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10269t.jpg)Meckel's diverticulectomy - series

## References

Bass LM, Wershil BK. Anatomy, histology, embryology, and developmental
anomalies of the small and large intestine. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt
LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 98.

Kleigman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF. Intestinal duplications,
meckel diverticulum, and other remnants of the omphalomesenteric duct. In:
Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 331.

## Review Date 10/23/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Birth Defects](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BirthDefect_thumb.jpg)Birth
Defects _Read more_

![Small Intestine
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SmallIntestineDiseases_thumb.jpg)Small
Intestine Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

