Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001669.htm    
                                Description: Intersex is a group of conditions where there is a discrepancy between the external genitals and the internal genitals (the testes and ovaries).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Intersex

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001669.htm

# Intersex

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Intersex is a group of conditions where there is a discrepancy between the
external genitals and the internal genitals (the testes and ovaries).

The older term for this condition is hermaphroditism. Although the older terms
are still included in this article for reference, they have been replaced by
most experts, patients and families. Increasingly, this group of conditions is
being called disorders of sex development (DSDs).

## Causes

Intersex can be divided into 4 categories:

    * 46, XX intersex
    * 46, XY intersex
    * True gonadal intersex
    * Complex or undetermined intersex 

Each one is discussed in more detail below.

Note: In many children, the cause of intersex may remain undetermined, even
with modern diagnostic techniques.

46, XX INTERSEX

The person has the chromosomes of a woman, the ovaries of a woman, but
external (outside) genitals that appear male. This most often is the result of
a female fetus having been exposed to excess male hormones before birth. The
labia ("lips" or folds of skin of the external female genitals) fuse, and the
clitoris enlarges to appear like a penis. In most cases, this person has a
normal uterus and fallopian tubes. This condition is also called 46, XX with
virilization. It used to be called female pseudohermaphroditism. There are
several possible causes:

    * Congenital adrenal hyperplasia (the most common cause).
    * Male hormones (such as testosterone) taken or encountered by the mother during pregnancy.
    * Male hormone-producing tumors in the mother: These are most often ovarian tumors. Mothers who have children with 46, XX intersex should be checked unless there is another clear cause.
    * Aromatase deficiency: This one may not be noticeable until puberty. Aromatase is an enzyme that normally converts male hormones to female hormones. Too much aromatase activity can lead to excess estrogen (female hormone); too little to 46, XX intersex. At puberty, these XX children, who had been raised as girls, may begin to take on male characteristics. 

46, XY INTERSEX

The person has the chromosomes of a man, but the external genitals are
incompletely formed, ambiguous, or clearly female. Internally, testes may be
normal, malformed, or absent. This condition is also called 46, XY with
undervirilization. It used to be called male pseudohermaphroditism. Formation
of normal male external genitals depends on the appropriate balance between
male and female hormones. Therefore, it requires the adequate production and
function of male hormones. 46, XY intersex has many possible causes:

    * Problems with the testes: The testes normally produce male hormones. If the testes do not form properly, it will lead to undervirilization. There are a number of possible causes for this, including XY pure gonadal dysgenesis.
    * Problems with testosterone formation: Testosterone is formed through a series of steps. Each of these steps requires a different enzyme. Deficiencies in any of these enzymes can result in inadequate testosterone and produce a different syndrome of 46, XY intersex. Different types of congenital adrenal hyperplasia can fall in this category.
    * Problems with using testosterone: Some people have normal testes and make adequate amounts of testosterone, but still have 46, XY intersex due to conditions such as 5-alpha-reductase deficiency or androgen insensitivity syndrome (AIS).
    * People with 5-alpha-reductase deficiency lack the enzyme needed to convert testosterone to dihydrotestosterone (DHT). There are at least 5 different types of 5-alpha-reductase deficiency. Some of the babies have normal male genitalia, some have normal female genitalia, and many have something in between. Most change to external male genitalia around the time of puberty.
    * AIS is the most common cause of 46, XY intersex. It has also been called testicular feminization. Here, the hormones are all normal, but the receptors to male hormones don't function properly. There are over 150 different defects that have been identified so far, and each causes a different type of AIS. 

TRUE GONADAL INTERSEX

The person must have both ovarian and testicular tissue. This may be in the
same gonad (an ovotestis), or the person might have 1 ovary and 1 testis. The
person may have XX chromosomes, XY chromosomes, or both. The external genitals
may be ambiguous or may appear to be female or male. This condition used to be
called true hermaphroditism. In most people with true gonadal intersex, the
underlying cause is unknown, although in some animal studies it has been
linked to exposure to common agricultural pesticides.

COMPLEX OR UNDETERMINED INTERSEX DISORDERS OF SEXUAL DEVELOPMENT

Many chromosome configurations other than simple 46, XX or 46, XY can result
in disorders of sex development. These include 45, XO (only one X chromosome),
and 47, XXY, 47, XXX - both cases have an extra sex chromosome, either an X or
a Y. These disorders do not result in a condition where there is discrepancy
between internal and external genitalia. However, there may be problems with
sex hormone levels, overall sexual development, and altered numbers of sex
chromosomes.

## Symptoms

The symptoms associated with intersex will depend on the underlying cause.
They may include:

    * Ambiguous genitalia at birth
    * Micropenis
    * Clitoromegaly (an enlarged clitoris)
    * Partial labial fusion
    * Apparently undescended testes (which may turn out to be ovaries) in boys
    * Labial or inguinal (groin) masses (which may turn out to be testes) in girls
    * Hypospadias (the opening of the penis is somewhere other than at the tip; in females, the urethra [urine canal] opens into the vagina)
    * Otherwise unusual-appearing genitalia at birth
    * Electrolyte abnormalities
    * Delayed or absent puberty
    * Unexpected changes at puberty 

## Exams and Tests

The following tests and exams may be done:

    * Chromosome analysis
    * Hormone levels (for example, testosterone level)
    * Hormone stimulation tests
    * Electrolyte tests
    * Specific molecular testing
    * Endoscopic exam (to verify the absence or presence of a vagina or cervix)
    * Ultrasound or MRI to evaluate whether internal sex organs are present (for example, a uterus)

## Treatment

Ideally, a team of health care professionals with expertise in intersex should
work together to understand and treat the child with intersex and support the
family.

Parents should understand controversies and changes in treating intersex in
recent years. In the past, the prevailing opinion was that it was generally
best to assign a gender as quickly as possible. This was often based on the
external genitals rather than the chromosomal gender. Parents were told to
have no ambiguity in their minds as to the gender of the child. Prompt surgery
was often recommended. Ovarian or testicular tissue from the other gender
would be removed. In general, it was considered easier to reconstruct female
genitalia than functioning male genitalia, so if the "correct" choice was not
clear, the child was often assigned to be a girl.

More recently, the opinion of many experts has shifted. Greater respect for
the complexities of female sexual functioning has led them to conclude that
suboptimal female genitalia may not be inherently better than suboptimal male
genitalia, even if the reconstruction is "easier." In addition, other factors
may be more important in gender satisfaction than functioning external
genitals. Chromosomal, neural, hormonal, psychological, and behavioral factors
can all influence gender identity.

Many experts now urge delaying definitive surgery for as long as is healthy,
and ideally involving the child in the gender decision.

Clearly, intersex is a complex issue, and its treatment has short- and long-
term consequences. The best answer will depend on many factors, including the
specific cause of the intersex. It is best to take the time to understand the
issues before rushing into a decision. An intersex support group may help
acquaint families with the latest research, and may provide a community of
other families, children, and adult individuals who have faced the same
issues.

## Support Groups

Support groups are very important for families dealing with intersex.

Different support groups may differ in their thoughts regarding this very
sensitive topic. Look for one that supports your thoughts and feelings on the
topic.

The following organizations provide further information:

    * Association for X and Y chromosome variations -- genetic.org
    * CARES Foundation -- www.caresfoundation.org/
    * Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia Education and Support Network -- congenitaladrenalhyperplasia.org/people.html
    * Hypospadias and Epispadias Association -- heainfo.org
    * Intersex Society of North America -- www.isna.org
    * Turner Syndrome Society of the United States -- www.turnersyndrome.org
    * 48,XXYY - XXYY Project -- genetic.org/variations/about-xxyy

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Please see information on the individual conditions. The prognosis depends on
the specific cause of intersex. With understanding, support, and appropriate
treatment, overall outlook is excellent.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

If you notice that your child has unusual genitalia or sexual development,
discuss this with your health care provider.

## Alternative Names

Disorders of sex development; DSDs; Pseudohermaphroditism; Hermaphroditism;
Hermaphrodite

## References

Diamond DA, Yu RN. Disorders of sexual development: etiology, evaluation, and
medical management. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds.
_Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 150.

Donohoue PA. Disorders of sex development. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum
NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 606.

Wherrett DK. Approach to the infant with a suspected disorder of sex
development. _Pediatr Clin North Am_. 2015;62(4):983-999. PMID: 26210628
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26210628.

## Review Date 8/7/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Birth Defects](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BirthDefect_thumb.jpg)Birth
Defects _Read more_

![Endocrine
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EndocrineDiseases_thumb.jpg)Endocrine
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

