Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001248.htm    
                                Description: Acrodysostosis is an extremely rare disorder that is present at birth (congenital). It leads to problemsÂ with the bones of the hands, feet, and nose, and intellectual disability.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Acrodysostosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001248.htm

# Acrodysostosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Acrodysostosis is an extremely rare disorder that is present at birth
(congenital). It leads to problemsÂ with the bones of the hands, feet, and
nose, and intellectual disability.

## Causes

MostÂ people with acrodysostosis have no family history of the disease.
However, sometimes the condition is passed down from parent to child. Parents
with the condition have a 1 in 2 chance of passing the disorder to their
children.

There is a slightly greater risk with fathers who are older.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of this disorder include:

    * Frequent middle ear infections
    * Growth problems, short arms and legs
    * Hearing problems
    * Intellectual disability
    * The body doesn't respond to certain hormones, even though hormone levels are normal
    * Distinct facial features 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider can usually diagnose this condition with a physical
exam. This may show any of the following:

    * Advanced bone age
    * Bone deformities in hands and feet
    * Delays in growth
    * Problems with the skin, genitals, teeth, and skeleton
    * Short arms and legs with small hands and feet
    * Short head, measured front to back
    * Short height
    * Small, upturned broad nose with flat bridge
    * Distinct features of the face (short nose, open mouth, jaw that sticks out)
    * Unusual head
    * Wide-spaced eyes, sometimes with extra skin fold at corner of eye 

In the first months of life, x-rays may show spotty calcium deposits, called
stippling, in bones (especially the nose). Infants may also have:

    * Abnormally short fingers and toes
    * Early growth of bones in the hands and feet
    * Short bones
    * Shortening of the forearm bones near the wrist 

Two genes have been linked with this condition, and genetic testing may be
done.

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the symptoms.

Hormones, such as growth hormone, may be given. Surgery to treat bone problems
may be done.

## Support Groups

These groups can provide more information on acrodysostosis:

    * National Organization for Rare Disorders -- rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/acrodysostosis
    * NIH Genetic and Rare Diseases Information Center -- rarediseases.info.nih.gov/diseases/5724/acrodysostosis

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Problems depend on the degree of skeletal involvement and intellectual
disability. In general,Â people do well.

## Possible Complications

Acrodysostosis may lead to:

    * Learning disability
    * Arthritis
    * Carpal tunnel syndrome
    * Worsening range of movement in the spine, elbows, and hands 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your child's provider if signs acrodystosis develop. Make sure your
child's height and weight are measured during each well-child visit. The
provider may refer you to:

    * A genetic professional for a full evaluation and chromosome studies
    * A pediatric endocrinologist for management of your child's growth problems

## Alternative Names

Arkless-Graham; Acrodysplasia; Maroteaux-Malamut

## Images

    * ![Anterior skeletal anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9065t.jpg)Anterior skeletal anatomy

## References

Jones KL, Jones MC, Del Campo M. Other skeletal dysplasias. In: Jones KL,
Jones MC, Del Campo M, eds. _Smith's Recognizable Patterns of Human
Malformation_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:560-593.

National Organization for Rare Disorders website. Acrodysostosis.
rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/acrodysostosis. Updated 2014. Accessed November
12, 2018.

Silve C, Clauser E, Linglart A. Acrodysostosis. _Horm Metab Res_.
2012;44(10):749-758. PMID: 22815067 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22815067.

## Review Date 10/15/2018

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Birth Defects](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BirthDefect_thumb.jpg)Birth
Defects _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

