Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001142.htm    
                                Description: An annular pancreas is a ring of pancreatic tissue that encircles the duodenum (the first part of the small intestine). The normal position of the pancreas is next to, but not surrounding the duodenum.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Annular pancreas

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001142.htm

# Annular pancreas

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An annular pancreas is a ring of pancreatic tissue that encircles the duodenum
(the first part of the small intestine). The normal position of the pancreas
is next to, but not surrounding the duodenum.

## Causes

Annular pancreas is problem present at birth (congenital defect). Symptoms
occur when the ring of pancreas squeezes and narrows the small intestine so
that food cannot pass easily or at all.

Newborns may have symptoms of complete blockage of the intestine. However, up
to one half of people with this condition do not have symptoms until
adulthood. There are also cases that are not detected because the symptoms are
mild.

Conditions that may be associated with annular pancreas include:

    * Down syndrome
    * Excess amniotic fluid during pregnancy (polyhydramnios)
    * Other congenital gastrointestinal problems
    * Pancreatitis 

## Symptoms

Newborns may not feed well. They may spit up more than normal, not drink
enough breast milk or formula, and cry.

Adult symptoms may include:

    * Fullness after eating
    * Nausea or vomiting

## Exams and Tests

Tests include:

    * Abdominal ultrasound
    * Abdominal x-ray
    * CT scan
    * Upper GI and small bowel series

## Treatment

Treatment most often involves surgery to bypass the blocked part of the
duodenum.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome is most often good with surgery. Adults with an annular pancreas
are at increased risk for pancreatic or biliary tract cancer.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Obstructive jaundice
    * Pancreatic cancer
    * Pancreatitis (inflammation of the pancreas)
    * Peptic ulcer
    * Perforation (tearing a hole) of the intestine due to obstruction
    * Peritonitis

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you or your child has any symptoms of
annular pancreas.

## Images

    * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
    * ![Endocrine glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1093t.jpg)Endocrine glands
    * ![Annular pancreas](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9063t.jpg)Annular pancreas

## References

Barth BA, Husain SZ. Anatomy, histology, embryology and developmental
anomalies of the pancreas. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds.
_Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 55.

Bales C, Liacouras CA. Intestinal atresia, stenosis, and malrotation. In:
Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 330.

Semrin MG, Russo MA. Anatomy, histology, and developmental anomalies of the
stomach and duodenum. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger
and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 48.

## Review Date 10/26/2017

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Birth Defects](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BirthDefect_thumb.jpg)Birth
Defects _Read more_

![Pancreatic
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PancreaticDiseases_thumb.jpg)Pancreatic
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

