Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002924.htm    
                                Description: Gastroschisis repair is a procedure done on an infant to correct a birth defect that causes an opening in the skin and muscles covering the belly (abdominal wall). The opening allows the intestines and    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Gastroschisis repair

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002924.htm

# Gastroschisis repair

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Gastroschisis repair is a procedure done on an infant to correct a birth
defect that causes an opening in the skin and muscles covering the belly
(abdominal wall). The opening allows the intestines and sometimes other organs
to bulge outside the belly.

## Description

The goal of the procedure is to place the organs back into the baby's belly
and fix the defect. Repair may be done right after the baby is born. This is
called primary repair. Or, the repair is done in stages. This is called staged
repair. Surgery for primary repair is done in the following way:

    * If possible, the surgery is performed the day your baby is born. This surgery is done when there is only a small amount of intestine outside the belly and the intestine isn't very swollen.
    * Right after birth, the intestine that is outside the belly is placed in a special bag or is covered with a plastic wrap to protect it.Â 
    * Your baby is then prepared for surgery.
    * Your baby receives general anesthesia. This is medicine that allows your baby to sleep and be pain-free during the operation.
    * The surgeon examines your baby's intestine (bowel) closely for signs of damage or other birth defects. Unhealthy parts are removed. The healthy edges are stitched together.
    * The intestine is placed back into the belly.
    * The opening in the wall of the belly is repaired.

Staged repair is done when your baby isn't stable enough for primary repair.
It may also be done if the baby's intestine is very swollen or there is a
large amount of intestine outside the body. Or, it is done when the baby's
belly isn't large enough to contain all of the intestine. The repair is
performed the following way:

    * Right after birth, the baby's intestine and any other organs that are outside the belly are placed in a long plastic pouch. This pouch is called a silo. The silo is then attached to the baby's belly.
    * The other end of the silo is hung above the baby. This allows gravity to help the intestine to slip into the belly. Each day, the health care provider also gently tightens the silo to push the intestine into the belly.
    * It may take up to 2 weeks for all of the intestine and any other organs to be back inside the belly. The silo is then removed. The opening in the belly is repaired.

More surgery may be needed at a later time to repair the muscles in your
baby's belly.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Gastroschisis is a life-threatening condition. It needs to be treated soon
after birth so that the baby's organs can develop and be protected in the
belly.

## Risks

Risks for anesthesia and surgery in general are:

    * Allergic reactions to medicines
    * Breathing problems
    * Bleeding
    * Infection

Risks for gastroschisis repair are:

    * Breathing problems if the baby's belly area (abdominal space) is smaller than normal. The baby may need a breathing tube and breathing machine for a few days or weeks after surgery.
    * Inflammation of tissues that line the wall of the abdomen and cover the abdominal organs.
    * Organ injury.
    * Problems with digestion and absorbing nutrients from food, if a baby has a lot of damage to the small bowel.
    * Temporary paralysis (muscles stop moving) of the small bowel.
    * Abdominal wall hernia.  
  

## Before the Procedure

Gastroschisis is usually seen on ultrasound before the baby is born. The
ultrasound may show loops of bowel freely floating outside the baby's belly.

After gastroschisis is found, your baby will be followed very closely to make
sure they are growing.

Your baby should be delivered at a hospital that has a neonatal intensive care
unit (NICU) and a pediatric surgeon. A NICU is set up to handle emergencies
that occur at birth. A pediatric surgeon has special training in surgery for
babies and children. Most babies who have gastroschisis are delivered by
cesarean section (C-section).

## After the Procedure

After surgery, your baby will receive care in the NICU. The baby will be
placed in a special bed to keep your baby warm.

Your baby may need to be on a breathing machine until organ swelling has
decreased and the size of the belly area has increased.

Other treatments your baby will probably need after surgery are:

    * A nasogastric (NG) tube placed through the nose to drain the stomach and keep it empty.
    * Antibiotics.
    * Fluids and nutrients given through a vein.
    * Oxygen.
    * Pain medicines.

Feedings are started through the NG tube as soon as your baby's bowel starts
functioning after surgery. Feedings by mouth will start very slowly. Your baby
may eat slowly and may need feeding therapy, lots of encouragement, and time
to recover after a feeding.

The average stay in the hospital is a few weeks up to a few months. You may be
able to take your baby home once they start taking all foods by mouth and
gaining weight.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

After you go home, your child may develop a blockage in the intestines (bowel
obstruction) due to a kink or scar in the intestines. The doctor can tell you
how this will be treated.

Most of the time, gastroschisis can be corrected with one or two surgeries.
How well your baby does will depend on how much damage there was to the
intestine.

After recovering from surgery, most children with gastroschisis do very well
and live normal lives. Most babies who are born with gastroschisis do not have
any other birth defects.

## Alternative Names

Abdominal wall defect repairÂ - gastroschisis

## Images

    * ![Gastroschisis repair - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/7105t.jpg)Gastroschisis repair - series

## References

Chung DH. Pediatric surgery. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM,
Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery: The Biological Basis of Modern
Surgical Practice_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 66.

Islam S. Congenital abdominal wall defects. In: Holcomb GW, Murphy JP, Ostlie
DJ, eds. _Ashcraft's Pediatric Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2014:chap 48.

Ledbetter DJ, Chabra S, Javid PJ. _Abdominal wall defects_. In: Gleason CA,
Juul SE, eds. _Avery's Diseases of the Newborn_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 73.

## Review Date 3/12/2019

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Birth Defects](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BirthDefect_thumb.jpg)Birth
Defects _Read more_

![Hernia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hernia_thumb.jpg)Hernia _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

