Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002929.htm    
                                Description: Meckel diverticulectomy is surgery to remove an abnormal pouch of the lining of the small intestine (bowel). This pouch is called a Meckel diverticulum.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Meckel diverticulectomy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002929.htm

# Meckel diverticulectomy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Meckel diverticulectomy is surgery to remove an abnormal pouch of the lining
of the small intestine (bowel). This pouch is called a Meckel diverticulum.

## Description

You will receive general anesthesia before surgery. This will make you sleep
and unable to feel pain.

If you have open surgery:

    * Your surgeon will make a large surgical cut in your belly to open up the area.
    * Your surgeon will look at the small intestine in the area where the pouch or diverticulum is located.
    * Your surgeon will remove the diverticulum from the wall of your intestine.
    * Sometimes, the surgeon may need to remove a small part of your intestine along with the diverticulum. If this is done, the open ends of your intestine will be sewn or stapled back together. This procedure is called an anastomosis. 

Surgeons can also do this surgery using a laparoscope. The laparoscope is an
instrument that looks like a small telescope with a light and a video camera.
It is inserted into your belly through a small cut. Video from the camera
appears on a monitor in the operating room. This allows the surgeon to view
inside your belly during surgery.

In surgery using a laparoscope:

    * Three to five small cuts are made in your belly. The camera and other small tools will be inserted through these cuts.
    * Your surgeon may also make a cut that is 2 to 3 inches (5 to 7.6 cm) long to put a hand through, if needed.
    * Your belly will be filled with gas to allow the surgeon to see the area and perform the surgery with more room to work.
    * The diverticulum is operated on as described above. 

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Treatment is needed to prevent:

    * Bleeding
    * Bowel obstruction (a blockage in your intestine)
    * Infection
    * Inflammation 

The most common symptom of Meckel diverticulum is painless bleeding from the
rectum. Your stool may contain fresh blood or look black and tarry.

## Risks

Risks for anesthesia and surgery in general are:

    * Allergic reactions to medicines or breathing problems
    * Bleeding, blood clots, or infection 

Risks for this surgery are:

    * Damage to nearby organs in the body.
    * Wound infections or the wound breaks open after surgery.
    * Bulging tissue through the surgical cut. This is called an incisional hernia.
    * The edges of your intestines that are sewn or stapled together (anastomosis) may come open. This may cause life-threatening problems.
    * The area where the intestines are sewn together can scar and create blockage of the intestine.
    * Blockage of the intestine may occur later from adhesions caused by the surgery. 

## Before the Procedure

Tell your surgeon:

    * If you are or could be pregnant
    * What medicines you are taking, even medicines, supplements, or herbs you bought without a prescription 

During the days before your surgery:

    * You may be asked to stop taking blood thinners. These include NSAIDs (aspirin, ibuprofen), vitamin E, warfarin (Coumadin), dabigatran (Pradaxa), rivaroxaban (Xarelto), apixaban (Eliquis), and clopidogrel (Plavix).
    * Ask your doctor which drugs you should still take on the day of the surgery.
    * If you smoke, try to stop. Ask your doctor or nurse for help quitting. 

On the day of your surgery:

    * Follow your doctor's instructions about when to stop eating and drinking.
    * Take the medicines you were told to take with a small sip of water.
    * Arrive at the hospital on time. 

## After the Procedure

Most people stay in the hospital for 1 to 7 days depending on how extensive
the surgery was. During this time, the health care providers will carefully
monitor you.

Treatment may include:

    * Pain medicines
    * Tube through your nose into your stomach to empty your stomach and relieve nausea and vomiting 

You will also be given fluids and nutrition through a vein (IV) until your
provider feels you are ready to start drinking or eating. This could be as
soon as the day after surgery.

You will need to follow-up with your surgeon in a week or two after surgery.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most people who have this surgery have a good outcome. But the results of any
surgery depend on your overall health. Talk with your doctor about your
expected outcome.

## Alternative Names

Meckel diverticulectomy; Meckel diverticulum - surgery; Meckel diverticulum -
repair; GI bleeding - Meckel diverticulectomy; Gastrointestinal bleeding -
Meckel diverticulectomy

## Patient Instructions

    * Surgical wound care - open

## Images

    * ![Meckel's diverticulectomy - normal anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10269t.jpg)Meckel's diverticulectomy - series

## References

Harris JW, Evers BM. Small intestine. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers
BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 49.

Hartney M, Zoumberos MS, Fabri PJ. The management of diverticulosis of the
small bowel. In: Cameron JL, Cameron AM, eds. _Current Surgical Therapy_. 12th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:128-130.

## Review Date 9/3/2018

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Birth Defects](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BirthDefect_thumb.jpg)Birth
Defects _Read more_

![Small Intestine
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SmallIntestineDiseases_thumb.jpg)Small
Intestine Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

