Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001661.htm    
                                Description: Trisomy 18 is a genetic disorder in which a person has a third copy of material from chromosome 18, instead of the usual 2 copies. Most cases are not passed down through families. Instead, the problems    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Trisomy 18

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001661.htm

# Trisomy 18

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Trisomy 18 is a genetic disorder in which a person has a third copy of
material from chromosome 18, instead of the usual 2 copies. Most cases are not
passed down through families. Instead, the problems that lead to this
condition occur in either the sperm or the egg that forms the fetus.

## Causes

Trisomy 18 occurs in 1 in 6000 live births. It is 3 times more common in girls
than boys.

The syndrome occurs when there is extra material from chromosome 18. The extra
material affects normal development.

    * Trisomy 18: the presence of an extra (third) chromosome 18 in all of the cells.
    * Mosaic trisomy 18: the presence of an extra chromosome 18 in some of the cells.
    * Partial trisomy 18: the presence of a part of an extra chromosome 18 in the cells.

Most cases of Trisomy 18 are not passed down through families (inherited).
Instead, the events that lead to trisomy 18 occur in either the sperm or the
egg that forms the fetus.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

    * Clenched hands
    * Crossed legs
    * Feet with a rounded bottom (rocker-bottom feet)
    * Low birth weight
    * Low-set ears
    * Mental delay
    * Poorly developed fingernails
    * Small head (microcephaly)
    * Small jaw (micrognathia)
    * Undescended testicle
    * Unusual shaped chest (pectus carinatum) 

## Exams and Tests

An exam during pregnancy may show an unusually large uterus and extra amniotic
fluid. There may be an unusually small placenta when the baby is born. A
physical exam of the infant may show unusual facial features and fingerprint
patterns. X-rays may show a short breast bone.

Chromosome studies will show trisomy 18. The chromosome abnormality may be
present in every cell or present in only a certain percentage of the cells
(called mosaicism). Studies may also show part of the chromosome in some
cells. Rarely, part of the chromosome 18 becomes attached to another
chromosome. This is called translocation.

Other signs include:

    * Hole, split, or cleft in the iris of the eye (coloboma)
    * Separation between the left and right side of the abdominal muscle (diastasis recti)
    * Umbilical hernia or inguinal hernia

There are often signs of congenital heart disease, such as:

    * Atrial septal defect (ASD)
    * Patent ductus arteriosus (PDA)
    * Ventricular septal defect (VSD) 

Tests may also show kidney problems, including:

    * Horseshoe kidney
    * Hydronephrosis
    * Polycystic kidney

## Treatment

There are no specific treatments for trisomy 18. Which treatments are used
depend on the person's individual condition.

## Support Groups

Support groups include:

    * Support Organization for Trisomy 18, 13 and Related Disorders (SOFT): trisomy.org
    * Trisomy 18 Foundation: www.trisomy18.org
    * Hope for Trisomy 13 and 18: www.hopefortrisomy13and18.org

## Outlook (Prognosis)

One half of infants with this condition do not survive beyond the first week
of life. Nine out of ten children will die by 1 year of age. Some children
have survived to the teenage years, but with serious medical and developmental
problems.

## Possible Complications

Complications depend on the specific defects and symptoms.

Complications may include:

    * Breathing difficulty or lack of breathing (apnea)
    * Deafness
    * Feeding problems
    * Heart failure
    * Seizures
    * Vision problems

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Genetic counseling can help families understand the condition, the risks of
inheriting it, and how to care for the person.

## Prevention

Tests can be done during pregnancy to find out if the child has this syndrome.

Genetic counseling is recommended for parents who have a child with this
syndrome and who want to have more children.

## Alternative Names

Edwards syndrome

## Images

    * ![Syndactyly](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1763t.jpg)Syndactyly

## References

Bacino CA, Lee B. Cytogenetics. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah
SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 98.

Madan-Khetarpal S, Arnold G. Genetic disorders and dysmorphic conditions. In:
Zitelli BJ, McIntire SC, Nowalk AJ, eds. _Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of
Pediatric Physical Diagnosis_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap
1.

## Review Date 7/29/2019

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Birth Defects](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BirthDefect_thumb.jpg)Birth
Defects _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

