Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001131.htm    
                                Description: Duodenal atresia is a condition in which the first part of the small bowel (the duodenum) has not developed properly. It is not open and cannot allow the passage of stomach contents.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Duodenal atresia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001131.htm

# Duodenal atresia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Duodenal atresia is a condition in which the first part of the small bowel
(the duodenum) has not developed properly. It is not open and cannot allow the
passage of stomach contents.

## Causes

The cause of duodenal atresia is not known. It is thought to result from
problems during an embryo's development. The duodenum does not change from a
solid to a tube-like structure, as it normally would.

Many infants with duodenal atresia also have Down syndrome. Duodenal atresia
is often associated with other birth defects.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of duodenal atresia include:

    * Upper abdominal swelling (sometimes)
    * Early vomiting of large amounts, which may be greenish (containing bile)
    * Continued vomiting even when infant has not been fed for several hours
    * No bowel movements after first few meconium stools 

## Exams and Tests

A fetal ultrasound may show high amounts of amniotic fluid in the womb
(polyhydramnios). It may also show swelling of the baby's stomach and part of
the duodenum.

An abdominal x-ray may show air in the stomach and first part of duodenum,
with no air beyond that. This is known as the double-bubble sign.

## Treatment

A tube is placed to decompress the stomach. Dehydration and electrolyte
imbalances are corrected by providing fluids through an intravenous tube (IV,
into a vein). Checking for other congenital anomalies should be done.

Surgery to correct the duodenal blockage is necessary, but not an emergency.
The exact surgery will depend on the nature of the abnormality. Other problems
(such as those related to Down syndrome) must be treated as appropriate.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Recovery from the duodenal atresia is expected after treatment. If not
treated, the condition is deadly.

## Possible Complications

These complications may occur:

    * Other birth defects
    * Dehydration

After surgery, there may be complications such as:

    * Swelling of the first part of the small bowel
    * Problems with movement through the intestines
    * Gastroesophageal reflux 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if your newborn is:

    * Feeding poorly or not at all
    * Vomiting (not simply spitting up) or if the vomit is green
    * Not urinating or having bowel movements

## Prevention

There is no known prevention.

## Images

    * ![Stomach and small intestine](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8940t.jpg)Stomach and small intestine

## References

Dingeldein M. Selected gastrointestinal anomalies in the neonate. In: Martin
RJ, Fanaroff AA, Walsh MC, eds. _Fanaroff and Martin's Neonatal-Perinatal
Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 84.

Maqbool A, Bales C, Liacouras CA. Intestinal atresia, stenosis, and
malrotation. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson
KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2020:chap 356.

Semrin MG, Russo MA. Anatomy, histology, and developmental anomalies of the
stomach and duodenum. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger
and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 48.

## Review Date 4/4/2019

Updated by: Liora C. Adler, MD, Pediatric Emergency Medicine, Joe DiMaggio
Children's Hospital, Hollywood, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Birth Defects](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BirthDefect_thumb.jpg)Birth
Defects _Read more_

![Down Syndrome](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DownSyndrome_thumb.jpg)Down
Syndrome _Read more_

![Small Intestine
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SmallIntestineDiseases_thumb.jpg)Small
Intestine Disorders _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

