Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000994.htm    
                                Description: An omphalocele is a birth defect in which an infant    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Omphalocele

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000994.htm

# Omphalocele

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An omphalocele is a birth defect in which an infant's intestine or other
abdominal organs are outside of the body because of a hole in the belly button
(navel) area. The intestines are covered only by a thin layer of tissue and
can be easily seen.

## Causes

Omphalocele is considered an abdominal wall defect (a hole in the abdominal
wall). The child's intestines usually stick out (protrude) through the hole.

The condition looks similar to gastroschisis. An omphalocele is a birth defect
in which the infant's intestine or other abdominal organs protrude through a
hole in the belly button area and are covered with a membrane. In
gastroschisis, there is no covering membrane.

Abdominal wall defects develop as a baby grows inside the mother's womb.
During development, the intestines and other organs (liver, bladder, stomach,
and ovaries or testes) develop outside the body at first and then usually
return inside. In babies with omphalocele, the intestines and other organs
remain outside the abdominal wall, with a membrane covering them. The exact
cause for abdominal wall defects is not known.

Infants with an omphalocele often have other birth defects. Defects include
genetic problems (chromosomal abnormalities), congenital diaphragmatic hernia,
and heart and kidney defects. These problems also affect the overall outlook
(prognosis) for the baby's health and survival.

## Symptoms

An omphalocele can be clearly seen. This isÂ because the abdominal contents
stick out (protrude) through the belly button area.

There are different sizes of omphaloceles. In small ones, only the intestines
remain outside the body. In larger ones, the liver or other organs may be
outside as well.

## Exams and Tests

Prenatal ultrasounds often identify infants with an omphalocele before birth.

Testing is often not necessary to diagnose omphalocele. However, babies with
an omphalocele should be tested for other problems that often go with it. This
includes ultrasounds of kidneys and heart, blood tests for genetic disorders,
among other tests.

## Treatment

Omphaloceles are repaired with surgery, although not always immediately. A sac
protects the abdominal contents and may allow time for other more serious
problems (such as heart defects) to be dealt with first, if necessary.

To fix an omphalocele, the sac is covered with a special man-made material,
which is then stitched in place to form what is called a silo. As the baby
grows over time, the abdominal contents are pushed into the abdomen.

When the omphalocele can comfortably fit within the abdominal cavity, the silo
is removed and the abdomen is closed.

Sometimes, the omphalocele is so large that it cannot be placed back inside
the infant's abdomen. The skin around the omphalocele grows and eventually
covers the omphalocele. The abdominal muscles and skin can be repaired when
the child is older for a better cosmetic outcome.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Complete recovery is expected after surgery for an omphalocele. However,
omphaloceles often occur with other birth defects. How well a child does
depends on which other conditions the child has.

If the omphalocele is identified before birth, the mother should be closely
monitored to make sure the unborn baby remains healthy.

Plans should be made for careful delivery and immediate management of the
problem after birth. The baby should be delivered in a medical center that is
skilled at repairing abdominal wall defects. Babies are likely to do better if
they do not need to be taken to another center for further treatment.

Parents should consider testing the baby, and possibly family members, for
other genetic problems that are associated with this condition.

## Possible Complications

Another complication is bowel death (necrosis). This occurs when intestinal
tissue dies due to low blood flow or infection.

The increased pressure from the misplaced abdominal contents can decrease
blood flow to the intestine and kidneys. It can also make it difficult for the
baby to expand the lungs, leading to breathing problems.

This condition is apparent at birth and will be detected in the hospital at
delivery if it has not already been seen on routine fetal ultrasound exams
during pregnancy. If you have given birth at home and your baby appears to
have this defect, call the local emergency number (such as 911) right away.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

This problem is diagnosed and repaired in the hospital at birth. After
returning home, call your health care provider if your baby develops any of
these symptoms:

    * Decreased bowel movements
    * Feeding problems
    * Fever
    * Green or yellowish green vomit
    * Swollen belly area
    * Vomiting (different than normal baby spit-up)
    * Worrisome behavioral changes

## Alternative Names

Birth defect - omphalocele; Abdominal wall defect - infant; Abdominal wall
defect - neonate; Abdominal wall defect - newborn

## Images

    * ![Infant omphalocele](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9030t.jpg)Infant omphalocele
    * ![Omphalocele repair - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/7143t.jpg)Omphalocele repair - series

## References

Gottlieb LJ, Reid RR, Slidell MB. Pediatric chest and trunk defects. In:
Rodriguez ED, Losee JE, Neligan PC, eds. _Plastic Surgery: Volume 3:
Craniofacial, Head and Neck Surgery and Pediatric Plastic Surgery_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 40.

Walther AE, Nathan JD. Newborn abdominal wall defects. In: Wyllie R, Hyams JS,
Kay M, eds. _Pediatric Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 58.

## Review Date 12/13/2017

Updated by: Kimberly G. Lee, MD, MSc, IBCLC, Associate Professor of
Pediatrics, Division of Neonatology, Medical University of South Carolina,
Charleston, SC. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Birth Defects](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BirthDefect_thumb.jpg)Birth
Defects _Read more_

![Hernia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hernia_thumb.jpg)Hernia _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

