Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001579.htm    
                                Description: Amniotic band sequence (ABS) is a group of birth defects that result when strands of the amniotic sac detach and wrap around parts of the baby in the womb. The defects may affect the face, arms, legs,    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Amniotic band sequence

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001579.htm

# Amniotic band sequence

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Amniotic band sequence (ABS) is a group of birth defects that result when
strands of the amniotic sac detach and wrap around parts of the baby in the
womb. The defects may affect the face, arms, legs, fingers, or toes.

## Causes

Amniotic bands are thought to be caused by damage to a part of the placenta
called the amnion (or amniotic membrane). The placenta carries blood to a baby
still growing in the womb. Damage to the placenta can prevent normal growth
and development.

Damage to the amnion may produce fiber-like bands that can trap or compress
parts of the developing baby. These bands reduce blood supply to the areas and
cause them to develop abnormally.

## Symptoms

The severity of the deformity can vary widely, from a small dent in a toe or
finger to an entire body part missing or being severely underdeveloped.
Symptoms may include:

    * Abnormal gap in the face (if it goes across the face, it is called a cleft)
    * All or part of a finger, toe, arm or leg missing (congenital amputation)
    * Defect of the abdomen or chest wall (if band is located in those areas)
    * Permanent band or indentation around an arm, leg, finger, or toe

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider can diagnose this condition during a physical exam.Â
This conditionÂ isÂ usually diagnosed at birth.

## Treatment

Treatment varies widely. Often, the deformity is not severe and no treatment
is needed. In more serious cases, major surgery may be needed to reconstruct
all or some of a body part. Some cases are so severe that they cannot be
repaired.

Plans should be made for careful delivery and management of the problem after
birth. The baby should be delivered in a medical center that has specialists
experienced in caring for babies with this condition.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well the infant does depends on the severity of the condition. Most cases
are mild and the outlook for normal function is excellent. More severe cases
have more guarded outcomes.

## Possible Complications

Complications can include complete or partial loss of function of a body part.
Congenital bands affecting large parts of the body cause the most problems.
Some cases are so severe that they cannot be repaired.

## Alternative Names

Amniotic band syndrome; Amniotic constriction bands; Constriction band
syndrome; ABS; Limb-body wall complex; Constriction rings; Body wall defect

## References

Crum CP, Laury AR, Hirsch MS, Quick CM, Peters WA. Amniotic bands. In: Crum
CP, Laury AR, Hirsch MS, Quick CM, Peters WA. eds. _Gynecologic and Obstetric
Pathology_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:776-777.

Jain JA, Fuchs KM. Amniotic band sequence. In: Copel JA, D'Alton ME, Feltovich
H, et al, eds. _Obstetric Imaging: Fetal Diagnosis and Care_. 2nd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 98.

## Review Date 12/13/2017

Updated by: Kimberly G. Lee, MD, MSc, IBCLC, Associate Professor of
Pediatrics, Division of Neonatology, Medical University of South Carolina,
Charleston, SC. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Birth Defects](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BirthDefect_thumb.jpg)Birth
Defects _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

