Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001269.htm    
                                Description: Prune belly syndrome is a group of rare birth defects that involves these three main problems:    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Prune belly syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001269.htm

# Prune belly syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Prune belly syndrome is a group of rare birth defects that involves these
three main problems:

    * Poor development of the abdominal muscles, causing the skin of the belly area to wrinkle like a prune
    * Undescended testicles
    * Urinary tract problems

## Causes

The exact causes of prune belly syndrome are unknown. The condition affects
mostly boys.

While in the womb, the developing baby's abdomen swells with fluid. Often, the
cause is a problem in the urinary tract. The fluid disappears after birth,
leading to a wrinkled abdomen that looks like a prune. This appearance is more
noticeable due to the lack of abdominal muscles.

## Symptoms

Weak abdominal muscles can cause:

    * Constipation
    * Delay in sitting and walking
    * Difficulties coughing

Urinary tract problems can cause difficulty urinating.

## Exams and Tests

A woman who is pregnant with a baby who has prune belly syndrome may not have
enough amniotic fluid (the fluid that surrounds the fetus). This can cause the
infant to have lung problemsÂ from being compressed in the womb.

An ultrasound done during pregnancy may show that the baby has a swollen
bladder or enlarged kidney.

In some cases, a pregnancy ultrasound may also help determine if the baby has:

    * Heart problems
    * Abnormal bones or muscles
    * Stomach and intestinal problems
    * Underdeveloped lungs 

The following tests may be performed on the baby after birth to diagnose the
condition:

    * Blood tests
    * Intravenous pyelogram (IVP)
    * Ultrasound
    * Voiding cystourethrogram (VCUG)
    * X-ray 
    * CT scanÂ   

## Treatment

Early surgery is recommended to fix weak abdominal muscles, urinary tract
problems, and undescended testicles.

The baby may be given antibiotics to treat or help prevent urinary tract
infections.

## Support Groups

The following resources can provide more information on prune belly syndrome:

    * Prune Belly Syndrome Network -- www.prunebelly.org
    * National Organization for Rare Disorders -- rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/prune-belly-syndrome

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Prune belly syndrome is a serious and often life-threatening problem.

Many infants with this condition are either stillborn or die within the first
few weeks of life. The cause of death isÂ from severe lung or kidney problems,
or from a combination of birth problems.

Some newborns survive and can develop normally.Â Others continue to have many
medical and developmental problems.

## Possible Complications

Complications depend on the related problems. The most common are:

    * Constipation
    * Bone deformities (clubfoot, dislocated hip, missing limb, finger, or toe, funnel chest)
    * Disease of the urinary tract (may need dialysis and a kidney transplant)

Undescended testicles can lead to infertility or cancer.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Prune belly syndrome is usually diagnosed before birth or when the baby is
born.

If you have a child with diagnosed prune belly syndrome, call your health care
provider at the first sign of a urinary tract infection or other urinary
symptoms.

If a pregnancy ultrasound shows that your baby has aÂ swollen bladder or
enlarged kidneys, talk to a specialist in high-risk pregnancy or perinatology.

## Prevention

There is no known way to prevent this condition. If the baby is diagnosed with
a urinary tract obstruction before birth, in rare cases, surgery during the
pregnancy may help prevent the problem from progressing to prune belly
syndrome.

## Alternative Names

Eagle-Barrett syndrome; Triad syndrome

## References

Caldamone AA, Denes FT. Prune-belly syndrome. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin
AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 140.

Elder JS. Obstruction of the urinary tract. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St.
Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 540.

Merguerian PA, Rowe CK. Developmental abnormalities of the genitourinary
system. In: Gleason CA, Juul SE, eds. _Avery's Diseases of the Newborn_. 10th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 88.

## Review Date 10/26/2017

Updated by: Anna C. Edens Hurst, MD, MS, Assistant Professor in Medical
Genetics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Birth Defects](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BirthDefect_thumb.jpg)Birth
Defects _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

