Link: https://medlineplus.gov/prediabetes.html    
                                Description: Prediabetes happens when your blood sugar levels are higher than normal but not high enough to be calledÂ diabetes.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Prediabetes

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/prediabetes.html

#  Prediabetes

On this page

### Basics

  * Summary
  * Start Here
  * Diagnosis and Tests
  * Prevention and Risk Factors
  * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

  * Living With
  * Related Issues

### See, Play and Learn

  * No links available

### Research

  * Statistics and Research
  * Clinical Trials
  * Journal Articles

### Resources

  * Find an Expert

### For You

  * Patient Handouts

## Summary

### What is prediabetes?

Prediabetes means that your blood glucose, or blood sugar, levels are higher
than normal but not high enough to be called diabetes. Glucose comes from the
foods you eat. Too much glucose in your blood can damage your body over time.

If you have prediabetes, you are more likely to develop type 2 diabetes, heart
disease, and stroke. But if you make some lifestyle changes now, you may be
able to delay or prevent type 2 diabetes.

### What causes prediabetes?

Prediabetes usually happens when your body has a problem with insulin. Insulin
is a hormone that helps the glucose get into your cells to give them energy. A
problem with insulin could be

  * Insulin resistance, a condition in which the body can't use its insulin properly. It makes it hard for your cells to get glucose from your blood. This can cause your blood sugar levels to rise.
  * Your body can't make enough insulin to keep your blood sugar levels at a healthy level

Researchers think that being overweight and not getting regular physical
activity are major factors in causing prediabetes.

### Who is at risk for prediabetes?

About 1 out of every 3 adults has prediabetes. It is more common in people who

  * Are overweight or have obesity
  * Are age 45 or older
  * Have a parent, brother, or sister with diabetes
  * Are African American, Alaska Native, American Indian, Asian American, Hispanic/Latino, Native Hawaiian, or Pacific Islander American
  * Are not physically active
  * Have health conditions such as high blood pressure and high cholesterol
  * Have had gestational diabetes (diabetes in pregnancy)
  * Have a history of heart disease or stroke
  * Have metabolic syndrome
  * Have polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS)

### What are the symptoms of prediabetes?

Most people don't know they have prediabetes because usually there are no
symptoms.

Some people with prediabetes may have darkened skin in the armpit or on the
back and sides of the neck. They may also have many small skin growths in
those same areas.

### How is prediabetes diagnosed?

There are a few different blood tests that can diagnose prediabetes. The most
common ones are

  * Fasting plasma glucose (FPG) test, which measures your blood sugar at a single point in time. You need to fast (not eat or drink) for at least 8 hours before the test. The results of the test are given in mg/dL (milligrams per deciliter): 
    * A normal level is 99 or below
    * Prediabetes is 100 to 125
    * Type 2 diabetes is 126 and above
  * A1C test, which measures your average blood sugar over the past 3 months. The results of an A1C test are given as a percentage. The higher the percentage, the higher your blood sugar levels have been. 
    * A normal level is below 5.7 percent
    * Prediabetes is between 5.7 to 6.4 percent
    * Type 2 diabetes is above 6.5 percent

### If I have prediabetes, will I get diabetes?

If you have prediabetes, you may be able to delay or prevent type 2 diabetes
through lifestyle changes:

  * Losing weight, if you are overweight
  * Getting regular physical activity
  * Following a healthy, reduced-calorie eating plan

In some cases, your health care provider may also recommend taking diabetes
medicines.

### Can prediabetes be prevented?

If you are at risk for prediabetes, those same lifestyle changes (losing
weight, regular physical activity, and a healthy eating plan) may prevent you
from getting it.

NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases

## Start Here

  * Prediabetes (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
  * Prediabetes ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Diabetes Information Clearinghouse, National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) \- PDF

## Diagnosis and Tests

  * A1C: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * Blood Glucose Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * Diabetes and Prediabetes Tests ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)
  * Diabetes Tests & Diagnosis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) Also in Spanish
  * Diagnosing Diabetes and Learning about Prediabetes (American Diabetes Association)

## Prevention and Risk Factors

  * Prediabetes Non-Modifiable Risk Factors (American Heart Association)

## Treatments and Therapies

  * Medication or Lifestyle Changes for Prediabetes (American Heart Association)

## Living With

  * How to Prevent Diabetes: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Related Issues

  * Complications to Avoid with Pre-Diabetes (American Heart Association)
  * Diabetes, Heart Disease, and Stroke ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) Also in Spanish
  * Insulin Resistance and Prediabetes ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) Also in Spanish

## Statistics and Research

  * Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Diabetes Information Clearinghouse, National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)

## Clinical Trials

  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Insulin Resistance ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Prediabetic State ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

  * Article: The roles of first phase, second phase insulin secretion, insulin resistance,...
  * Article: Circulating myokine levels in different stages of glucose intolerance.
  * Article: Association between vitamin D and prediabetes: A PRISMA-compliant meta-analysis.
  * Prediabetes -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

  * American Diabetes Association
  * National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)
  * NIDDK Information Clearinghouses and Health Information Center ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)

## Patient Handouts

  * Blood sugar test - blood (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Glucose tolerance test - non-pregnant (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Prediabetes (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![A photo of a man bicycling](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Prediabetes.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

  * Blood sugar test - blood
  * Glucose tolerance test - non-pregnant
  * Prediabetes

## Related Health Topics

  * A1C
  * Diabetes
  * Diabetes in Children and Teens
  * Diabetes Type 2
  * How to Prevent Diabetes
  * Metabolic Syndrome

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Prediabetes is the National
Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases

## Other Languages

Find health information in languages other than English on _Prediabetes_

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 13 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 10 May 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

