Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001228.htm    
                                Description: Clubfoot is a condition that involves both the foot and lower legÂ when the foot turns inward and downward. It is a congenital condition, which means it is present at birth.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Clubfoot

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001228.htm

# Clubfoot

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Clubfoot is a condition that involves both the foot and lower legÂ when the
foot turns inward and downward. It is a congenital condition, which means it
is present at birth.

## Causes

Clubfoot is the most common congenital disorder of the legs. It can range from
mild and flexible to severe and rigid.

The cause is not known. Most often, it occurs by itself. But the condition may
be passed down through families in some cases. Risk factors include a family
history of the disorder and being male. Clubfoot can also occur as part of an
underlying genetic syndrome, such as trisomy 18.

A related problem, called positional clubfoot, is not true clubfoot. It
results from a normal foot positioned abnormally while the baby is in the
womb. This problem is easily corrected after birth.

## Symptoms

The physical appearance of the foot may vary. One or both feet may be
affected.

The foot turns inward and downward at birth, and is difficult to place in the
correct position. The calf muscle and foot may be slightly smaller than
normal.

## Exams and Tests

The disorder is identified during a physical examination.

A foot x-ray may be done.Â Ultrasound during the first 6 months of pregnancy
can also help to identify the disorder.

## Treatment

Treatment may involve moving the foot into the correct position and using a
cast to keep it there. This is often done by an orthopedic specialist.
Treatment should be started as early as possible, ideally, shortly after
birth, when it is easiest to reshape the foot.

Gentle stretching and recasting will be done every week to improve the
position of the foot. Generally, five to 10 casts are needed. The final cast
will stay in place for 3 weeks. After the foot is in the correct position, the
child will wear a special brace nearly full time for 3 months. Then, the child
will wear the brace at night and during naps for up to 3 years.

Often, the problem is a tightened Achilles tendon, and a simple procedure is
needed to release it.

Some severe cases of clubfoot will need surgery if other treatments do not
work, or if the problem returns. The child should be monitored by a health
care provider until the foot is fully grown.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome is usually good with treatment.

## Possible Complications

Some defects may not be completely fixed. However, treatment can improve the
appearance and function of the foot. Treatment may be less successful if the
clubfoot is linked to other birth disorders.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

If your child is being treated for clubfoot, call your provider if:

    * The toes swell, bleed, or change color under the cast
    * The cast appears to be causing significant pain
    * The toes disappear into the cast
    * The cast slides off
    * The foot begins to turn in again after treatment 

## Alternative Names

Talipes equinovarus; Talipes

## Images

    * ![Clubfoot deformity](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9198t.jpg)Clubfoot deformity
    * ![Clubfoot repair - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10112t.jpg)Clubfoot repair - series

## References

Marcdante KJ, Kleigman RM. Foot. In: Marcdante KJ, Kleigman RM, eds. _Nelson
Essentials of Pediatrics_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 201.

Martin S. Clubfoot (talipes quinovarus). In: Copel JA, D'Alton ME, Feltovich
H, et al. _Obstetric Imaging: Fetal Diagnosis and Care_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 64.

Warner WC, Beaty JH. Paralytic disorders. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale ST,
eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 34.

## Review Date 10/18/2017

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Birth Defects](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BirthDefect_thumb.jpg)Birth
Defects _Read more_

![Foot Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FootInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Foot
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

