Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002938.htm    
                                Description: Omphalocele repair is a procedure done on an infant to correct a birth defect in the wall of the belly (abdomen) in which all or part of the bowel, possibly the liver and other organs stick out of the    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Omphalocele repair

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002938.htm

# Omphalocele repair

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Omphalocele repair is a procedure done on an infant to correct a birth defect
in the wall of the belly (abdomen) in which all or part of the bowel, possibly
the liver and other organs stick out of the belly button (navel) in a thin
sac.

Other birth defects may also be present.

## Description

The goal of the procedure is to place the organs back into the baby's belly
and fix the defect. Repair may be done right after the baby is born. This is
called primary repair. Or, the repair is done in stages. This is called staged
repair.

Surgery for primary repair is most often done for a small omphalocele.

    * Right after birth, the sac with the organs outside the belly is covered with a sterile dressing to protect it.
    * When the doctors determine your newborn is strong enough for surgery, your baby is prepared for the operation.
    * Your baby receives general anesthesia. This is medicine that allows your baby to sleep and be pain-free during the operation.
    * The surgeon makes a cut (incision) to remove the sac around the organs.
    * The organs are examined closely for signs of damage or other birth defects. Unhealthy parts are removed. The healthy edges are stitched together.
    * The organs are placed back into the belly.  

    * The opening in the wall of the belly is repaired.

Staged repair is done when your baby isn't stable enough for primary repair.
Or, it is done if the omphalocele is very large and the organs can't fit into
the baby's belly. The repair is performed the following way:

    * Right after birth, a plastic pouch (called a silo) or a mesh-type of material is used to contain the omphalocele. The pouch or mesh is then attached to the baby's belly.
    * Every 2 to 3 days, the doctor gently tightens the pouch or mesh to push the intestine into the belly.
    * It may take up to 2 weeks or more for all of the organs to be back inside the belly. The pouch or mesh is then removed. The opening in the belly is repaired.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Omphalocele is a life-threatening condition. It needs to be treated soon after
birth so that the baby's organs can develop and be protected in the belly.

## Risks

Risks for anesthesia and surgery in general are:

    * Allergic reactions to medicines
    * Breathing problems
    * Bleeding
    * Infection

Risks for omphalocele repair are:

    * Breathing problems. The baby may need a breathing tube and breathing machine for a few days or weeks after surgery.
    * Inflammation of the tissue that lines the wall of the abdomen and covers the abdominal organs.
    * Organ injury.
    * Problems with digestion and absorbing nutrients from food, if a baby has a lot of damage to the small bowel.

## Before the Procedure

Omphalocele is usually seen on ultrasound before the baby is born. After it is
found, your baby will be followed very closely to make sure they are growing.

Your baby should be delivered at a hospital that has a neonatal intensive care
unit (NICU) and a pediatric surgeon. A NICU is set up to handle emergencies
that occur at birth. A pediatric surgeon has special training in surgery for
babies and children. Most babies who have a giant omphalocele are delivered by
cesarean section (C-section).

## After the Procedure

After surgery, your baby will receive care in the NICU. Your baby will be
placed in a special bed to keep your baby warm.

Your baby may need to be on a breathing machine until organ swelling has
decreased and the size of the belly area has increased.

Other treatments your baby will probably need after surgery are:

    * Antibiotics
    * Fluids and nutrients given through a vein
    * Oxygen
    * Pain medicines
    * A nasogastric (NG) tube placed through the nose into the stomach to drain the stomach and keep it empty

Feedings are started through the NG tube as soon as your baby's bowel starts
working after surgery. Feedings by mouth will start very slowly. Your baby may
eat slowly and may need feeding therapy, lots of encouragement, and time to
recover after a feeding.

How long your baby stays in the hospital depends on whether there are other
birth defects and complications. You may be able to take your baby home once
they start taking all foods by mouth and gaining weight.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

After you go home, your child may develop a blockage in the intestines (bowel
obstruction) due to a kink or scar in the intestines. The doctor can tell you
how this will be treated.

Most of the time, surgery can correct omphalocele. How well your baby does
depends on how much damage or loss of intestine there was, and whether your
child has other birth defects.

Some babies have gastroesophageal reflux after surgery. This condition causes
food or stomach acid to come back up from the stomach into the esophagus.

Some babies with large omphaloceles may also have small lungs and may need to
use a breathing machine.

All babies born with an omphalocele should have chromosome testing. This will
help parents understand the risk for this disorder in future pregnancies.

## Alternative Names

Abdominal wall defect repair - omphalocele; Exomphalos repair

## Patient Instructions

    * Bringing your child to visit a very ill sibling
    * Surgical wound care - open

## Images

    * ![Omphalocele repair - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/7143t.jpg)Omphalocele repair - series

## References

Chung DH. Pediatric surgery. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM,
Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery: The Biological Basis of Modern
Surgical Practice_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 66.

Ledbetter DJ, Chabra S, Javid PJ. Abdominal wall defects. In: Gleason CA, Juul
SE, eds. _Avery's Diseases of the Newborn_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 73.

Walther AE, Nathan JD. Newborn abdominal wall defects. In: Wyllie R, Hyams JS,
Kay M, eds. _Pediatric Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 58.

## Review Date 3/12/2019

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Birth Defects](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BirthDefect_thumb.jpg)Birth
Defects _Read more_

![Hernia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hernia_thumb.jpg)Hernia _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

