Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003303.htm    
                                Description: Low-set ears and pinna abnormalities refer to an abnormal shape or position of the outer ear (pinna or auricle).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Low-set ears and pinna abnormalities

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003303.htm

# Low-set ears and pinna abnormalities

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Low-set ears and pinna abnormalities refer to an abnormal shape or position of
the outer ear (pinna or auricle).

## Considerations

The outer ear or "pinna" forms when the baby is growing in the mother's womb.
The growth of this ear part takes place at a time when many other organs are
developing (such as the kidneys). Abnormal changes in the shape or position of
the pinna may be a sign that the baby also has other related problems.

Common abnormal findings include cysts in the pinna or skin tags.

Many children are born with ears that stick out. Although people may comment
on the ear shape, this condition is a variation of normal and is not linked
with other disorders.

However, the following problems may be related to medical conditions:

    * Abnormal folds or location of the pinna
    * Low-set ears
    * No opening to the ear canal
    * No pinna
    * No pinna and ear canal (anotia) 

## Causes

Common conditions that can cause low-set and unusually formed ears include:

    * Down syndrome
    * Turner syndrome

Rare conditions that can cause low-set and malformed ears include:

    * Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome
    * Potter syndrome
    * Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome
    * Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome
    * Treacher Collins syndrome
    * Trisomy 13
    * Trisomy 18

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

In most cases, a health care provider finds pinna abnormalities during the
first well-baby exam. This exam is most often done at the hospital at the time
of delivery.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will:

    * Examine and test the child for other physical abnormalities of the kidneys, bones of the face, skull, and facial nerve
    * Ask if you have a family history of abnormal-shaped ears 

To determine whether the pinna is abnormal, the provider will take
measurements with a tape measure. Other parts of the body will also be
measured, including the eyes, hands, and feet.

All newborns should have a hearing test. Exams for any changes in mental
development may be performed as the child grows. Genetic testing may also be
done.

TREATMENT

Most of the time, no treatment is needed for pinna abnormalities because they
do not affect hearing. However, sometimes cosmetic surgery is recommended.

    * Skin tags may be tied off, unless there is cartilage in them. In that case, surgery is needed to remove them.
    * Ears that stick out may be treated for cosmetic reasons. During the newborn period, a small framework may be attached using tape or Steri-Strips. The child wears this framework for several months. Surgery to correct the ears cannot be done until the child is 5 years old. 

More severe abnormalities may require surgery for cosmetic reasons as well as
for function. Surgery to create and attach a new ear is often done in stages.

## Alternative Names

Low-set ears; Microtia; "Lop" ear; Pinna abnormalities; Genetic defect -
pinna; Congenital defect - pinna

## Images

    * ![Ear abnormalities](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17281t.jpg)Ear abnormalities
    * ![Pinna of the newborn ear](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9528t.jpg)Pinna of the newborn ear

## References

Haddad J, Keesecker S. Congenital malformations. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF,
St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 638.

Madan-Khetarpal S, Arnold G. Genetic disorders and dysmorphic conditions. In:
Zitelli BJ, McIntire SC, Nowalk AJ, eds. _Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of
Pediatric Physical Diagnosis_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap
1.

Parikh AS, Mitchell AL. Congenital anomalies. In: Martin RJ, Fanaroff AA,
Walsh MC, eds. _Fanaroff and Martin's Neonatal-Perinatal Medicine: Diseases of
the Fetus and Infant_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap
31.

## Review Date 10/18/2017

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Birth Defects](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BirthDefect_thumb.jpg)Birth
Defects _Read more_

![Ear Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EarDisorders_thumb.jpg)Ear
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

