Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007311.htm    
                                Description: The quadruple screen test is a blood test done during pregnancy to determine whether the baby is at risk for certain birth defects.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Quadruple screen test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007311.htm

# Quadruple screen test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The quadruple screen test is a blood test done during pregnancy to determine
whether the baby is at risk for certain birth defects.

## How the Test is Performed

This test is most often done between the 15th and 22nd weeks of the pregnancy.
It is most accurate between the 16th and 18th weeks.

A blood sample is taken and sent to the lab for testing.

The test measures levels of 4 pregnancy hormones:

    * Alpha-fetoprotein (AFP), a protein produced by the baby
    * Human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG), a hormone produced in the placenta
    * Unconjugated estriol (uE3), a form of the hormone estrogen produced in the fetus and the placenta
    * Inhibin A, a hormone released by the placenta 

If the test does not measure levels of inhibin A, it is called the triple
screen test.

To determine the chance of your baby having a birth defect, the test also
factors in:

    * Your age
    * Your ethnic background
    * Your weight
    * Your baby's gestational age (measured in weeks from the day of your last period to the current date) 

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special steps are needed to prepare for the test.

## How the Test will Feel

You may feel slight pain or a sting when the needle is inserted. You may also
feel some throbbing at the site after the blood is drawn.

## Why the Test is Performed

The test is done to find out if your baby might be at risk for certain birth
defects, such as Down syndrome and birth defects of the spinal column and
brain (called neural tube defects). This test is a screening test, so it does
not diagnose problems.

Certain women are at greater risk of having a baby with these defects,
including:

    * Women who are over 35 years old during pregnancy 
    * Women taking insulin to treat diabetes
    * Women with a family history of birth defects

## Normal Results

Normal levels of AFP, hCG, uE3, and inhibin A.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk to
your health care provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An abnormal test result does NOT mean that your baby definitely has a birth
defect. Often, the results can be abnormal if your baby is older or younger
than your provider had thought.

If you have an abnormal result, you will have another ultrasound to check the
age of the developing baby.

More tests and counseling may be recommended if the ultrasound shows a
problem. However, some people choose not to have any more tests done, for
personal or religious reasons. Possible next steps include:

    * Amniocentesis, which checks the AFP level in the amniotic fluid surrounding the baby
    * Tests to detect or rule out certain birth defects (such as Down syndrome)
    * Genetic counseling
    * Ultrasound to check the baby's brain, spinal cord, kidneys, and heart 

During pregnancy, increased levels of AFP may be due to a problem with the
developing baby, including:

    * Absence of part of the brain and skull (anencephaly)
    * Defect in the baby's intestines or other nearby organs (such as duodenal atresia)
    * Death of the baby inside the womb (usually results in a miscarriage)
    * Spina bifida (spinal defect)
    * Tetralogy of Fallot (heart defect)
    * Turner syndrome (genetic defect) 

High AFP can also mean that you're carrying more than 1 baby.

Low levels of AFP and estriol and high levels of hCG and inhibin A may be due
to a problem such as:

    * Down syndrome (trisomy 21)
    * Edwards syndrome (trisomy 18) 

## Considerations

The quadruple screen can have false-negative and false-positive results
(although it is slightly more accurate than the triple screen). More tests are
needed to confirm an abnormal result.

If the test is abnormal, you may want to talk to a genetic counselor.

## Alternative Names

Quad screen; Multiple marker screening; AFP plus; Triple screen test; AFP
maternal; MSAFP; 4-marker screen; Down syndrome - quadruple; Trisomy 21 -
quadruple; Turner syndrome - quadruple; Spina bifida - quadruple; Tetralogy -
quadruple; Duodenal atresia - quadruple; Genetic counseling - quadruple;
Alpha-fetoprotein quadruple; Human chorionic gonadotropin - quadruple; hCG -
quadruple; Unconjugated estriol - quadruple; uE3 - quadruple; Pregnancy -
quadruple; Birth defect - quadruple

## Images

    * ![Quadruple screen](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22709t.jpg)Quadruple screen

## References

ACOG Practice Bulletin No. 162: Prenatal diagnostic testing for genetic
disorders. _Obstet Gynecol_. 2016;127(5):e108-e122. PMID: 26938573
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26938573.

Driscoll DA, Simpson JL, Holzgreve W, Otano L. Genetic screening and prenatal
genetic diagnosis. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds.
_Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 10.

Wapner RJ. Prenatal diagnosis of congenital disorders. In: Creasy RK, Resnik
R, Iams JD, Lockwood CJ, Moore TR, Greene MF, eds. _Creasy and Resnik's
Maternal-Fetal Medicine: Principles and Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 30.

Williams DE, Pridjian G. _Obstetrics_. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP, eds. _Textbook
of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 20.

## Review Date 1/14/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Birth Defects](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BirthDefect_thumb.jpg)Birth
Defects _Read more_

![Prenatal
Testing](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PrenatalTesting_thumb.jpg)Prenatal
Testing _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

