Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002936.htm    
                                Description: Congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) repair is surgery to correct an opening or space in a baby    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Congenital diaphragmatic hernia repair

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002936.htm

# Congenital diaphragmatic hernia repair

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) repair is surgery to correct an opening
or space in a baby's diaphragm. This opening is called a hernia. It is a rare
type of birth defect. Congenital means the problem is present at birth.

## Description

Before the surgery is done, nearly all infants need a breathing device to
improve their oxygen levels.

The surgery is done while your child is under general anesthesia (asleep and
not able to feel pain). The surgeon usually makes a cut (incision) in the
belly under the upper ribs. This allows the organs in the area to be reached.
The surgeon gently pulls these organs down into place through the opening in
the diaphragm and into the abdominal cavity.

In less severe cases, the surgery can be done using smaller incisions in the
chest. A small video camera called a thoracoscope is placed through one of the
incisions. This allows the surgeon to view inside the chest. Instruments to
repair the hole in the diaphragm are placed through the other incisions.

In either type of operation, the surgeon repairs the hole in the diaphragm. If
the hole is small, it may be repaired with stitches. Or, a piece of plastic
patch is used to cover the hole.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

The diaphragm is a muscle. It is important for breathing. It separates the
chest cavity (where the heart and lungs are) from the belly area.

In a child with CDH, the diaphragm muscle is not completely formed. The CDH
opening allows organs from the belly (stomach, spleen, liver, and intestines)
to go up into the chest cavity where the lungs are. The lungs do not grow
normally and stay too small for babies to breathe on their own when they are
born. The blood vessels in the lungs also develop abnormally. This results in
not enough oxygen getting into the baby's body.

A diaphragmatic hernia can be life threatening and most babies with CDH are
very ill. Surgery to repair CDH must be done as early as possible after the
baby is born.

## Risks

Risks for this surgery include:

    * Breathing problems, which may be severe
    * Bleeding
    * Collapsed lung
    * Lung problems that do not go away
    * Infection
    * Reactions to medicines 

## Before the Procedure

Babies born with CDH are admitted to a neonatal intensive care unit (NICU). It
may be days or weeks before the baby is stable enough for surgery. Because the
condition is life threatening and transporting a very ill newborn is risky,
babies who are known to have CDH should be delivered in a center with
pediatric surgeons and neonatologists.

    * In the NICU, your baby will probably need a breathing machine (mechanical ventilator) before the surgery. This helps the baby breathe.
    * If your child is very sick, a heart-lung bypass machine (extracorporeal membrane oxygenator, or ECMO) may be needed to do the work of the heart and lungs.
    * Before surgery, your baby will have x-rays and regular blood tests to see how well the lungs are working. A light sensor (called a pulse oximeter) is taped to baby's skin to monitor the oxygen level in the blood.
    * Your baby may be given medicines to control blood pressure and stay comfortable.

Your baby will have tubes placed:

    * From the mouth or nose to the stomach to keep air out of the stomach
    * In an artery to monitor blood pressure
    * In a vein to deliver nutrients and medicines

## After the Procedure

Your baby will be on a breathing machine after the surgery and will stay in
the hospital for several weeks. Once taken off the breathing machine, your
baby may still need oxygen and medicines for a while.

Feedings will start after your baby's bowels start working. Feedings are
usually given through a small, soft feeding tube from the mouth or nose into
the stomach or small intestine until your baby can take milk by mouth.

Nearly all infants with CDH have reflux when they eat. This means the food or
acid in their stomach moves up into their esophagus, the tube that leads from
the throat to the stomach. This can be uncomfortable. It also leads to
frequent spitting up and vomiting, which makes feedings more difficult once
your baby is taking food by mouth. Reflux increases the risk for pneumonia if
babies inhale milk into their lungs. It can also make it challenging for
babies to take in enough calories to grow.

The nurses and feeding specialists will teach you ways to hold and feed your
baby to prevent reflux. Some babies need to be on a feeding tube for a long
time to help them get enough calories to grow.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome of this surgery depends on how well your baby's lungs have
developed. Some babies have other medical problems, especially with the heart,
brain, muscles, and joints, which often affect how well the baby does.

Usually the outlook is good for infants who have well-developed lung tissue
and no other problems. Even so, most babies who are born with a diaphragmatic
hernia are very ill and will stay in the hospital for a long time. With
advances in medicine, the outlook for these infants is improving.

All babies who have had CDH repairs will need to be watched closely to make
sure the hole in their diaphragm does not open up again as they grow.

Babies who had a large opening or defect in the diaphragm, or who had more
problems with their lungs after birth, may have lung disease after they leave
the hospital. They may need oxygen, medicines, and a feeding tube for months
or years.

Some babies will have problems crawling, walking, talking, and eating. They
will need to see physical or occupational therapists to help them develop
muscles and strength.

## Alternative Names

Diaphragmatic hernia - surgery

## Patient Instructions

    * Bringing your child to visit a very ill sibling
    * Surgical wound care - open

## Images

    * ![Diaphragmatic hernia repair - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/7073t.jpg)Diaphragmatic hernia repair - series

## References

Carlo WA, Ambalavanan N. Respiratory tract disorders. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton
BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 101.

Hollinger LE, Harting MT, Lally KP. Long-term follow-up of congenital
diaphragmatic hernia. _Semin Pediatr Surg_. 2017;26(3):178-184. PMID: 28641757
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28641757.

Keller BA, Hirose S, Farmer DL. Surgical disorders of the chest and airways.
In: Gleason CA, Juul SE, eds. _Avery's Diseases of the Newborn_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 49.

Tsao KJ, Lally KP. Congenital diaphragmatic hernia and eventration. In:
Holcomb GW, Murphy JP, Ostlie DJ, eds. _Ashcraft's Pediatric Surgery_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 24.

## Review Date 11/11/2018

Updated by: Kimberly G. Lee, MD, MSc, IBCLC, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
Division of Neonatology, Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston, SC.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Birth Defects](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BirthDefect_thumb.jpg)Birth
Defects _Read more_

![Hernia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hernia_thumb.jpg)Hernia _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

