Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001147.htm    
                                Description: Imperforate anus is a defect in which the opening to the anus is missing or blocked. The anus is the opening to the rectum through which stools leave the body. This is present from birth (congenital).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Imperforate anus

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001147.htm

# Imperforate anus

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Imperforate anus is a defect in which the opening to the anus is missing or
blocked. The anus is the opening to the rectum through which stools leave the
body. This is present from birth (congenital).

## Causes

Imperforate anus may occur in several forms:

    * The rectum may end in a pouch that does not connect with the colon.
    * The rectum may have openings to other structures. These may include the urethra, bladder, base of the penis or scrotum in boys, or vagina in girls.
    * There may be narrowing (stenosis) of the anus or no anus. 

It is caused by abnormal development of the fetus. Many forms of imperforate
anus occur with other birth defects.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of the problem may include:

    * Anal opening very near the vagina opening in girls
    * First stool is not passed within 24 to 48 hours after birth
    * Missing or moved opening to the anus
    * Stool passes out of the vagina, base of penis, scrotum, or urethra
    * Swollen belly area

## Treatment

A health care provider can diagnose this condition during a physical exam.
Imaging tests may be ordered.

The infant should be checked for other problems, such as abnormalities of the
genitals, urinary tract, and spine.

Surgery to correct the defect is needed. If the rectum connects with other
organs, these organs will also need to be repaired. A temporary colostomy
(connecting the end of the large intestine to the abdomen wall so that stool
can be collected in a bag) is often needed.

## Outlook (prognosis)

Most defects can successfully be corrected with surgery. Most children with
mild defects do very well. However, constipation can be a problem.

Children who have more complex surgeries still have control over their bowel
movements most of the time. However, they often need to follow a bowel
program. This includes eating high-fiber foods, taking stool softeners, and
sometimes using enemas.

Some children may need more surgery.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

This problem is often found when the newborn infant is first examined.

Call your provider if a child treated for imperforate anus has:

    * Abdominal pain
    * Constipation that is difficult to manage
    * Failure to develop any bowel control by the age of 3

## Prevention

There is no known prevention. Parents with a family history of this defect may
seek genetic counseling.

## Alternative Names

Anorectal malformation; Anal atresia

## Images

    * ![Imperforate anus](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9450t.jpg)Imperforate anus
    * ![Imperforate anus repair - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/7134t.jpg)Imperforate anus repair - series

## References

Dingelsein M. Selected gastrointestinal anomalies in the neonate. In: Martin
RJ, Fanaroff AA, Walsh MC, eds. _Fanaroff and Martin's Neonatal-Perinatal
Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 84.

Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM. Surgical
conditions of the anus and rectum. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah
SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 371.

## Review Date 4/4/2019

Updated by: Liora C. Adler, MD, Pediatric Emergency Medicine, Joe DiMaggio
Children's Hospital, Hollywood, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Doctor](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AnalDisordersAndAnalCancer_thumb.jpg)Anal
Disorders _Read more_

![Birth Defects](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BirthDefect_thumb.jpg)Birth
Defects _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

