Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003267.htm    
                                Description: Polyhydramnios occurs when too much amniotic fluid builds up during pregnancy. It is also called amniotic fluid disorder, or hydramnios.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Polyhydramnios

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003267.htm

# Polyhydramnios

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Polyhydramnios occurs when too much amniotic fluid builds up during pregnancy.
It is also called amniotic fluid disorder, or hydramnios.  

## Considerations

Amniotic fluid is the liquid that surrounds the baby in the womb (uterus). It
comes from the baby's kidneys, and it goes into the uterus from the baby's
urine. The fluid is absorbed when the baby swallows it and through breathing
motions.

While in the womb, the baby floats in the amniotic fluid. It surrounds and
cushions the infant during pregnancy. The amount of amniotic fluid is greatest
at 34 to 36 weeks of pregnancy. Then the amount slowly decreases until the
baby is born.

The amniotic fluid:

    * Allows baby to move in the womb, promoting muscle and bone growth
    * Helps baby's lungs to developÂ 
    * Protects the baby from heat loss by keeping the temperature constantÂ 
    * Cushions and protects the baby from sudden blows from outside the womb

## Causes

Polyhydramnios can occur if the baby does not swallow and absorb amniotic
fluid in normal amounts. This can happen if the baby has certain health
problems, including:

    * Gastrointestinal disorders, such as duodenal atresia, esophageal atresia, gastroschisis, and diaphragmatic hernia
    * Brain and nervous system problems, such as anencephaly and myotonic dystrophy
    * Achondroplasia
    * Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome

It can also happen if the mother has poorly controlled diabetes.

Polyhydramnios also may occur if too much fluid is produced. This may be due
to:

    * Certain lung disorders in the baby
    * Multiple pregnancy (for example, twins or triplets)
    * Hydrops fetalis in the baby

Sometimes, no specific cause is found.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you are pregnant and notice that your belly
is getting large very quickly.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider measures the size of your belly at every visit. This shows the
size of your womb. If your womb is growing faster than expected, or it is
larger than normal for your baby's gestational age, the provider may:

    * Have you come back sooner than normal to check it again
    * Do an ultrasound

If your provider finds a birth defect, you may need amniocentesis to test for
a genetic defect.

Mild polyhydramnios that shows up later in pregnancy often doesn't cause
serious problems.

Severe polyhydramnios may be treated with medicine or by having extra fluid
removed.

Women with polyhydramnios are more likely to go into early labor. The baby
will need to be delivered in a hospital. That way, the providers can
immediately check the health of the mother and baby and give treatment if
needed.

## Alternative Names

Pregnancy - polyhydramnios; Hydramnios - polyhydramnios

## Images

    * ![Polyhydramnios](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17123t.jpg)Polyhydramnios

## References

Buhimschi CS, Mesiano S, Muglia LJ. Pathogenesis of spontaneous preterm birth.
In: Resnik R, Lockwood CJ, Moore TR, Greene MF, Copel JA, Silver RM, eds.
_Creasy and Resnik's Maternal-Fetal Medicine: Principles and Practice_. 8th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 7.

Gilbert WM. Amniotic fluid disorders. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et
al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 35.

Suhrie KR, Tabbah SM. The fetus. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah
SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 115.

## Review Date 5/17/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Birth Defects](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BirthDefect_thumb.jpg)Birth
Defects _Read more_

![Health Problems in
Pregnancy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HealthConditionsinPregnancy_thumb.jpg)Health
Problems in Pregnancy _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

