Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002964.htm    
                                Description: Clubfoot repair is surgery to correct a birth defect of the foot and ankle.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Clubfoot repair

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002964.htm

# Clubfoot repair

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Clubfoot repair is surgery to correct a birth defect of the foot and ankle.

## Description

The type of surgery that is done depends on:

    * How serious the clubfoot is
    * Your child's age
    * What other treatments your child has had 

Your child will have general anesthesia (asleep and pain-free) during the
surgery.

Ligaments are tissues that help hold the bones together in the body. Tendons
are tissues that help attach muscles to bones. A clubfoot occurs when tight
tendons and ligaments prevent the foot from stretching into the right
position.

To repair a clubfoot, 1 or 2 cuts are made in the skin, most often on the back
of the foot and around the inside part of the foot.

    * Your child's surgeon may make the tendons around the foot longer or shorter. The Achilles tendon at the back of the foot is almost always cut or lengthened.
    * Older children or more severe cases may need some bone cuts. Sometimes, pins, screws or plates are placed in the foot.
    * A cast is placed on the foot after surgery to keep it in position while it heals. Sometimes a splint is put on first, and the cast is placed a few days later. 

Older children who still have a foot deformity after surgery may need more
surgery. Also, children who have not had surgery yet may need surgery as they
grow. Types of surgery they may need include:

    *  **Osteotomy** : Removing part of the bone.
    *  **Fusion or arthrodesis** : Two or more bones are fused together. The surgeon may use bone from somewhere else in the body.
    * Metal pins, screws or plates may be used to hold the bones together for a while.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

A baby who is born with a clubfoot is first treated with a cast to stretch the
foot into a more normal position.

    * A new cast will be placed every week so the foot can be stretched into position.
    * Cast changes continue for about 2 months. After casting, the child wears a brace for several years.

Clubfoot found in babies can often be successfully managed with casting and
bracing, thereby avoiding surgery.

However, clubfoot repair surgery may be needed if:

    * The cast or other treatments do not fully correct the problem.
    * The problem comes back.
    * A clubfoot was never treated.

## Risks

Risks from any anesthesia and surgery are:

    * Breathing problems
    * Reactions to medicines
    * Bleeding
    * Infection 

Possible problems from clubfoot surgery are:

    * Damage to nerves in the foot
    * Foot swelling
    * Problems with blood flow to the foot
    * Wound healing problems 
    * Stiffness
    * Arthritis
    * Weakness

## Before the Procedure

Your child's health care provider may:

    * Take a medical history of your child
    * Do a complete physical examination of your child
    * Do x-rays of the clubfoot
    * Test your child's blood (do a complete blood count and check electrolytes or clotting factors)

Always tell your child's provider:

    * What drugs your child is taking
    * Include herbs, and vitamins you bought without a prescription 

During the days before the surgery:

    * About 10 days before the surgery, you may be asked to stop giving your child aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), or any other drugs that make it hard for your child's blood to clot.
    * Ask which drugs your child should still take on the day of the surgery.

On the day of the surgery:

    * In most cases, your child will not be able to drink or eat anything for 4 to 6 hours before the surgery.
    * Only give your child a small sip of water with any medicine your doctor told you to give your child.
    * You will be told when to arrive for the surgery.

## After the Procedure

Depending on the surgery that is done, your child may go home on the same day
or stay in the hospital for 1 to 3 days right after the surgery. The hospital
stay may be longer if surgery was also done on the bones.

The child's foot should be kept in a raised position. Medicines may help
control the pain.

The skin around your child's cast will be checked often to make sure it stays
pink and healthy. Your child's toes also will be checked to make sure they are
pink and your child can move and feel them. These are signs of proper blood
flow.

Your child will have a cast on for 6 to 12 weeks. It may be changed several
times. Before your child leaves the hospital, you will be taught how to take
care of the cast.

When the last cast is taken off, your child will probably be prescribed a
brace, and may be referred for physical therapy. The therapist will teach you
exercises to do with your child to strengthen the foot and make sure it stays
flexible.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

After recovering from surgery, your child's foot will be in a much better
position. Your child should be able to have a normal, active life, including
playing sports. But the foot may be stiffer than a foot that has not been
treated with surgery.

In most cases of clubfoot, if only one side is affected, the child's foot and
calf will be smaller than normal for the rest of the child's life.

Children who have had clubfoot surgery may need another surgery later in life.

## Alternative Names

Repair of clubfoot; Posteromedial release; Achilles tendon release; Clubfoot
release; Talipes equinovarus - repair; Tibialis anterior tendon transfer

## Patient Instructions

    * Preventing falls
    * Surgical wound care - open

## Images

    * ![Clubfoot repair - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10112t.jpg)Clubfoot repair - series

## References

Kelly DM. Congenital anomalies of the lower extremity. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH,
Canale ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 29.

Ricco AI, Richards BS, Herring JA. Disorders of the foot. In: Herring JA, ed.
_Tachdjian's Pediatric Orthopaedics_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2014:chap 23.

## Review Date 3/17/2019

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Birth Defects](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BirthDefect_thumb.jpg)Birth
Defects _Read more_

![Foot Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FootInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Foot
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

