Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001633.htm    
                                Description: Fusion of the ear bones is the joining of the bones of the middle ear. These are the incus, malleus, and stapes bones. Fusion or fixation of the bones leads to hearing loss, because the bones are not moving    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Fusion of the ear bones

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001633.htm

# Fusion of the ear bones

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Fusion of the ear bones is the joining of the bones of the middle ear. These
are the incus, malleus, and stapes bones. Fusion or fixation of the bones
leads to hearing loss, because the bones are not moving and vibrating in
reaction to sound waves.

Related topics include:

    * Chronic ear infection
    * Otosclerosis
    * Middle ear malformations

## Images

    * ![Ear anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23221t.jpg)Ear anatomy
    * ![Medical findings based on ear anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1126t.jpg)Medical findings based on ear anatomy

## References

House JW, Cunningham CD. Otosclerosis. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et
al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head & Neck Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 144.

O'Handley JG, Tobin EJ, Shah AR. Otorhinolaryngology In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP,
eds. _Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 18.

Teasley RA, Backous DD. Clinical assessment and surgical treatment of
conductive hearing loss. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds.
_Cummings Otolaryngology: Head & Neck Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 143.

## Review Date 5/17/2018

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Birth Defects](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BirthDefect_thumb.jpg)Birth
Defects _Read more_

![Ear Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EarDisorders_thumb.jpg)Ear
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

