Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001135.htm    
                                Description: A diaphragmatic hernia is a birth defect in which there is an abnormal opening in the diaphragm. The diaphragm is the muscle between the chest and abdomen that helps you breathe. The opening allows part    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Diaphragmatic hernia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001135.htm

# Diaphragmatic hernia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A diaphragmatic hernia is a birth defect in which there is an abnormal opening
in the diaphragm. The diaphragm is the muscle between the chest and abdomen
that helps you breathe. The opening allows part of the organs from the belly
to move into the chest cavity near the lungs.

## Causes

A diaphragmatic hernia is a rare defect. It occurs while the baby is
developing in the womb. The diaphragm is not fully developed. Due to this,
organs, such as the stomach, small intestine, spleen, part of the liver, and
the kidney may take up part of the chest cavity.

CDH most often involves only one side of the diaphragm. It is more common on
the left side. Often, the lung tissue and blood vessels in the area do not
develop normally either. It is not clear if the diaphragmatic hernia causes
the underdeveloped lung tissue and blood vessels, or the other way around.

40 percent of babies with this condition have other problems as well. Having a
parent or sibling with the condition increases the risk.

## Symptoms

Severe breathing problems usually develop shortly after the baby is born. This
is due in part to poor movement of the diaphragm muscle and crowding of the
lung tissue. Problems with breathing and oxygen levels are often due to
underdeveloped lung tissue and blood vessels as well.

Other symptoms include:

    * Bluish colored skin due to lack of oxygen
    * Rapid breathing (tachypnea)
    * Fast heart rate (tachycardia) 

## Exams and Tests

Fetal ultrasound may show abdominal organs in the chest cavity. The pregnant
woman may have a large amount of amniotic fluid.

An exam of the infant shows:

    * Irregular chest movements
    * Lack of breath sounds on side with the hernia
    * Bowel sounds that are heard in the chest
    * Abdomen that looks less protuberant than a normal newborn's and feels less full when touched 

A chest x-ray may show abdominal organs in the chest cavity.

## Treatment

A diaphragmatic hernia repair requires surgery. Surgery is done to place the
abdominal organs into the proper position and repair the opening in the
diaphragm.

The infant will need breathing support during the recovery period. Some
infants are placed on a heart/lung bypass machine to help deliver enough
oxygen to the body.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome of surgery depends on how well the baby's lungs have developed. It
also depends on whether there are any other congenital problems. Most often
the outlook is good for infants who have a sufficient amount of working lung
tissue and have no other problems.

Medical advances have made it possible for more than one half of infants with
this condition to survive. The babies that survive will often have ongoing
challenges with breathing, feeding, and growth.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Lung infections
    * Other congenital problems 

## Prevention

There is no known prevention. Couples with a family history of this problem
may want to seek genetic counseling.

## Alternative Names

Hernia - diaphragmatic; Congenital hernia of the diaphragm (CDH)

## Images

    * ![Infant diaphragmatic hernia](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9036t.jpg)Infant diaphragmatic hernia
    * ![Diaphragmatic hernia repair - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/7073t.jpg)Diaphragmatic hernia repair - series

## References

Ahlfeld SK. Respiratory tract disorders. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum
NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 122.

Crowley MA. Neonatal respiratory disorders. In: Martin RJ, Fanaroff AA, Walsh
MC, eds. _Fanaroff and Martin's Neonatal-Perinatal Medicine_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 66.

Harting MT, Hollinger LE, Lally KP. Congenital diaphragmatic hernia and
eventration. In: Holcomb GW, Murphy JP, St. Peter SD, eds. _Holcomb and
Ashcraft's Pediatric Surgery_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap
24.

Kearney RD, Lo MD. Neonatal resuscitation. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 164.

## Review Date 4/4/2019

Updated by: Liora C. Adler, MD, Pediatric Emergency Medicine, Joe DiMaggio
Children's Hospital, Hollywood, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Birth Defects](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BirthDefect_thumb.jpg)Birth
Defects _Read more_

![Hernia](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hernia_thumb.jpg)Hernia _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

