Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002926.htm    
                                Description: Imperforate anus repair is surgery to correct a birth defect involving the rectum and anus.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Imperforate anus repair

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002926.htm

# Imperforate anus repair

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Imperforate anus repair is surgery to correct a birth defect involving the
rectum and anus.

An imperforate anus defect prevents most or all stool from passing out of the
rectum.Â

## Description

How this surgery is performed depends on the type of imperforate anus. The
surgery is done under general anesthesia.Â This means the infant is asleep and
feels no pain during the procedure.

For mild imperforate anus defects:

    * The first step involves enlarging the opening where the stool drains, so stool can pass more easily.
    * Surgery involves closing any small tube-like openings (fistulas), creating an anal opening, and putting the rectal pouch into the anal opening. This is called an anoplasty.
    * The child must often take stool softeners for weeks to months.

Two surgeries are often needed for more severe imperforate anus defects:

    * The first surgery is called a colostomy. The surgeon creates an openingÂ (stoma) in the skin and muscle of the abdominal wall. The end of the large intestine is attached to the opening. Stool will drain into a bag attached to the abdomen.
    * The baby is often allowed to grow for 3 to 6 months.
    * In the second surgery, the surgeon moves the colon to a new position. A cut is made in the anal area to pull the rectal pouch down into place and create an anal opening.
    * The colostomy will likely be left in place for 2 to 3 more months.

Your child's surgeon can tell you more about the exact way the surgeries will
be done.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

The surgery repairs the defect so that stool can move through the rectum.

## Risks

Risks from anesthesia and surgery in general include:

    * Reactions to medicines
    * Breathing problems
    * Bleeding, blood clots, infection

Risks of this procedure include:

    * Damage to the urethra (tube that carries urine out of the bladder)
    * Damage to the ureter (tube that carries urine from the kidneys to the bladder)
    * Hole that develops through the wall of the intestine
    * Abnormal connection (fistula) between the anus and vagina or skin
    * Narrowed opening of the anus
    * Long-term problems with bowel movements because of damage to the nerves and muscles to the colon and rectum (may be constipation or incontinence)
    * Temporary paralysis of the bowel (paralytic ileus) 

## Before the Procedure

Follow instructions on how to prepare your baby for the surgery.

## After the Procedure

Your baby may be able to go home later the same day if a mild defect is
repaired. Or, your baby will need to spend several days in the hospital.

The health care provider will use an instrument to stretch (dilate) the new
anus. This is done to improve muscle tone and prevent narrowing. This
stretching must be done for several months.Â

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most defects can be corrected with surgery. Children with mild defects usually
do very well. But, constipation may be a problem.

Children who have more complex surgeries still usually have control of their
bowel movements. But, they often need to follow a bowel program. This
includesÂ eating high-fiber foods, taking stool softeners, and sometimes using
enemas.

Some children may need more surgery. Most of these children will need to be
followed-up closely for life.

Children with imperforate anus may also have other birth defects, including
problems with the heart, kidneys, arms, legs, or spine.

## Alternative Names

Anorectal malformation repair; Perineal anoplasty; Anorectal anomaly;
Anorectal plasty

## Images

    * ![Imperforate anus repair - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/7134t.jpg)Imperforate anus repair - series

## References

Bischoff A, Levitt MA, PeÃ±a A. Imperforate anus. In: Wyllie R, Hyams JS, Kay
M, eds. _Pediatric Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 5th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 55.

Shanti CM. Surgical conditions of the anus and rectum. In: Kliegman RM, St
Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 371.

## Review Date 6/15/2019

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Doctor](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AnalDisordersAndAnalCancer_thumb.jpg)Anal
Disorders _Read more_

![Birth Defects](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BirthDefect_thumb.jpg)Birth
Defects _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

