Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003573.htm    
                                Description: Alpha fetoprotein (AFP) is a protein produced by the liver and yolk sac of a developing baby during pregnancy. AFP levels go down soon after birth. It is likely that AFP has no normal function in adults.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Alpha fetoprotein

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003573.htm

# Alpha fetoprotein

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Alpha fetoprotein (AFP) is a protein produced by the liver and yolk sac of a
developing baby during pregnancy. AFP levels go down soon after birth. It is
likely that AFP has no normal function in adults.

A test can be done to measure the amount of AFP in your blood.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed. Most of the time, blood is typically drawn from a
vein located on the inside of the elbow or the back of the hand.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You do not need to take any special steps to prepare.

## How the Test will Feel

You may feel slight pain or a sting when the needle is inserted. You may also
feel some throbbing at the site after the blood is drawn.

## Why the Test is Performed

Your health care provider may order this test to:

    * Screen for problems in the baby during pregnancy. (The test is done as part of a larger set of blood tests called quadruple screen.)
    * Diagnose certain liver disorders.
    * Screen for and monitor some cancers.

## Normal Results

The normal values in males or nonpregnant females is generally less than 40
micrograms/liter.

The examples above are common measurements for results of these tests. Normal
value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs use
different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your provider about
the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Greater than normal levels of AFP may be due to:

    * Cancer in testes, ovaries, biliary (liver secretion) tract, stomach, or pancreas
    * Cirrhosis of the liver
    * Liver cancer
    * Malignant teratoma
    * Recovery from hepatitis
    * Problems during pregnancy

## Alternative Names

Fetal alpha globulin; AFP

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test
    * ![Alpha fetoprotein - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/15160t.jpg)Alpha fetoprotein - series

## References

Driscoll DA, Simpson JL, Holzgreve W, Otano L. Genetic screening and prenatal
genetic diagnosis. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds.
_Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 10.

Fundora J. Neonatology. In: Hughes HK, Kahl LK, eds. _The Johns Hopkins
Hospital: The Harriet Lane Handbook_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2018:chap 18.

Jain S, Pincus MR, Bluth MH, McPherson RA, Browne WB, Lee P. Diagnosis and
management of cancer using serologic and other body fluid markers. In:
McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by
Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 74.

Wapner RJ, Dugoff L. Prenatal diagnosis of congenital disorders. In: Resnik R,
Lockwood CJ, Moore TR, Greene MF, Copel JA, Silver RM, eds. _Creasy and
Resnik's Maternal-Fetal Medicine: Principles and Practice_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 32.

## Review Date 6/30/2019

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Birth Defects](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BirthDefect_thumb.jpg)Birth
Defects _Read more_

![Cirrhosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cirrhosis2_thumb.jpg)Cirrhosis
_Read more_

![Hepatitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hepatitis_thumb.jpg)Hepatitis
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

