Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001650.htm    
                                Description: Osteosarcoma is a very rare type of cancerous bone tumor that usually develops in teenagers. It often occurs when a teen is growing rapidly.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Osteosarcoma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001650.htm

# Osteosarcoma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Osteosarcoma is a very rare type of cancerous bone tumor that usually develops
in teenagers. It often occurs when a teen is growing rapidly.

## Causes

Osteosarcoma is the most common bone cancer in children. Average age at
diagnosis is 15. Boys and girls are just as likely to develop this tumor until
the late teens, when it occurs more often in boys. Osteosarcoma is also common
in people over age 60.

The cause is not known. In some cases, osteosarcoma runs in families. At least
one gene has been linked to an increased risk. This gene is also associated
with familial retinoblastoma. This is a cancer of the eye that occurs in
children.

Osteosarcoma tends to occur in the bones of the:

    * Shin (near the knee)
    * Thigh (near the knee)
    * Upper arm (near the shoulder) 

Osteosarcoma occurs most commonly in large bones in the area of bone with the
fastest growth rate. However, it can occur in any bone.

## Symptoms

The first symptom is usually bone pain near a joint. This symptom may be
overlooked because of other more common causes of joint pain.

Other symptoms may include any of the following:

    * Bone fracture (may occur after a routine movement)
    * Limitation of motion
    * Limping (if the tumor is in the leg)
    * Pain when lifting (if the tumor is in the arm)
    * Tenderness, swelling, or redness at the site of the tumor 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about the
medical history and symptoms.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Biopsy (at time of surgery for diagnosis)
    * Blood tests
    * Bone scan to see if the cancer has spread to other bones
    * CT scan of the chest to see if the cancer has spread to the lungs
    * MRI scan
    * PET scan
    * X-ray

## Treatment

Treatment usually starts after a biopsy of the tumor is done.

Before surgery to remove the tumor, chemotherapy is usually given. This can
shrink the tumor and make surgery easier. It may also kill any cancer cells
that have spread to other parts of the body.

Surgery is used after chemotherapy to remove any remaining tumor. In most
cases, surgery can remove the tumor while saving the affected limb. This is
called limb-sparing surgery. In rare cases, more involved surgery (amputation)
is necessary.

## Support Groups

You can ease the stress of illness by joining a cancer support group. Sharing
with others who have common experiences and problems can help you and your
family not feel alone.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

If the tumor has not spread to the lungs (pulmonary metastasis), long-term
survival rates are better. If the cancer has spread to other parts of the
body, the outlook is worse. However, there is still a chance of cure with
effective treatment.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Limb removal
    * Spread of cancer to the lungs
    * Side effects of chemotherapy 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you or your child has persistent bone pain, tenderness,
or swelling.

## Alternative Names

Osteogenic sarcoma; Bone tumor - osteosarcoma

## Images

    * ![X-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1057t.jpg)X-ray
    * ![Osteogenic sarcoma - X-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1232t.jpg)Osteogenic sarcoma - x-ray
    * ![Ewing sarcoma - X-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1233t.jpg)Ewing sarcoma - x-ray
    * ![Bone tumor](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9714t.jpg)Bone tumor

## References

Anderson ME, Randall RL, Springfield DS, Gebhardt MC. Sarcomas of bone. In:
Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Doroshow JH, Kastan MB, Tepper JE, eds.
_Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2014:chap 92.

National Cancer Institute website. Osteosarcoma and malignant fibrous
histiocytoma of bone treatment (PDQ) - health professional version.
www.cancer.gov/types/bone/hp/osteosarcoma-treatment-pdq. Updated June 11,
2018. Accessed November 12, 2018.

## Review Date 10/18/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bone Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BoneCancer_thumb.jpg)Bone Cancer
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

