Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001302.htm    
                                Description: Ewing sarcoma is a malignant bone tumor that forms in the bone or soft tissue. It affects mostly teens and young adults.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ewing sarcoma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001302.htm

# Ewing sarcoma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Ewing sarcoma is a malignant bone tumor that forms in the bone or soft tissue.
It affects mostly teens and young adults.

## Causes

Ewing sarcoma can occur anytime during childhood and young adulthood. But it
usually develops during puberty, when bones are growing rapidly. It is more
common in white children than in African American, or Asian American children.

The tumor may start anywhere in the body. Most often, it starts in the long
bones of the arms and legs, the pelvis, or the chest. It can also develop in
the skull or the flat bones of the trunk.

The tumor often spreads (metastasizes) to the lungs and other bones. At the
time of diagnosis, spread is seen in about one third of children with Ewing
sarcoma.

In rare cases, Ewing sarcoma occurs in adults.

## Symptoms

There are few symptoms. The most common is pain and sometimes swelling at the
site of the tumor.

Children may also break a bone at the site of the tumor after a minor injury.

Fever may also be present.

## Exams and Tests

If a tumor is suspected, tests to locate the primary tumor and any spread
(metastasis) often include:

    * Bone scan
    * Chest x-ray
    * CT scan of the chest
    * MRI of the tumor
    * X-ray of the tumor

A biopsy of the tumor will be done. Different tests are done on this tissue to
help determine how aggressive the cancer is and what treatment may be best.

## Treatment

Treatment often includes a combination of:

    * Chemotherapy
    * Radiation therapy
    * Surgery to remove the primary tumor

Treatment depends on the following:

    * Stage of the cancer
    * Age and sex of the person
    * Results of the tests on the biopsy sample 

## Support Groups

The stress of illness can be eased by joining a cancer support group. Sharing
with others who have common experiences and problems can help you not feel
alone.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Before treatment, outlook depends on:

    * Whether the tumor has spread to lymph nodes or distant parts of the body
    * Where in the body the tumor started
    * How large the tumor is when it's diagnosed
    * Whether the LDH level in the blood is higher than normal
    * Whether the tumor has certain gene changes
    * Whether the child is younger than 15 years
    * Child's sex
    * Whether the child has had treatment for a different cancer before Ewing sarcoma
    * Whether the tumor has just been diagnosed or has come back

The best chance for cure is with a combination of treatments that includes
chemotherapy plus radiation or surgery.

## Possible Complications

The treatments needed to fight this disease have many complications. Discuss
these with your health care provider.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if your child has any of the symptoms of Ewing sarcoma. An
early diagnosis can increase the possibility of a favorable outcome.

## Alternative Names

Bone cancer - Ewing sarcoma; Ewing family of tumors; Primitive neuroectodermal
tumors (PNET); Bone neoplasm - Ewing sarcoma

## Images

    * ![X-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1057t.jpg)X-ray
    * ![Ewing sarcoma - X-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1233t.jpg)Ewing sarcoma - x-ray

## References

Anderson ME, Randall RL, Springfield DS, Gebhardt MC. Sarcomas of bone. In:
Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Doroshow JH, Kastan MB, Tepper JE, eds.
_Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2014:chap 92.

National Cancer Institute website. Ewing sarcoma treatment (PDQ) - health
professional version. www.cancer.gov/types/bone/hp/ewing-treatment-pdq.
Updated November 30, 2017. Accessed March 22, 2018.

National Comprehensive Cancer Network website. NCCN clinical practice
guidelines in oncology (NCCN guidelines): Bone cancer. Version 1.2018.
www.nccn.org/professionals/physician_gls/pdf/bone.pdf. Updated August 29,
2017. Accessed March 22, 2018.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Bone Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BoneCancer_thumb.jpg)Bone Cancer
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

