Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003069.htm    
                                Description: Breathing that stops from any cause is called apnea. Slowed breathing is called bradypnea. Labored or difficult breathing is known as dyspnea.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Breathing - slowed or stopped

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003069.htm

# Breathing - slowed or stopped

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Breathing that stops from any cause is called apnea. Slowed breathing is
called bradypnea. Labored or difficult breathing is known as dyspnea.

## Considerations

Apnea can come and go and be temporary. This can occur with obstructive sleep
apnea, for example.

Prolonged apnea means a person has stopped breathing. If the heart is still
active, the condition is known as respiratory arrest. This is a life-
threatening event that requires immediate medical attention and first aid.

Prolonged apnea with no heart activity in a person who is not responsive is
called cardiac (or cardiopulmonary) arrest. In infants and children, the most
common cause of cardiac arrest is respiratory arrest. In adults, the opposite
usually occurs, cardiac arrest most often leads to respiratory arrest.

## Causes

Breathing difficulty can occur for many reasons. In most cases, the most
common causes of apnea in infants and small children are different from the
most common causes in adults.

Common causes of breathing difficulties in infants and young children include:

    * Asthma
    * Bronchiolitis (inflammation and narrowing of the smaller breathing structures in the lungs)
    * Choking
    * Encephalitis (brain inflammation and infection that affects vital brain functions)
    * Gastroesophageal reflux (heartburn)
    * Holding one's breath
    * Meningitis (inflammation and infection of the tissue lining the brain and spinal cord)
    * Pneumonia
    * Premature birth
    * Seizures

Common causes of breathing trouble (dyspnea) in adults include:

    * Allergic reaction that causes tongue, throat, or other airway swelling
    * Asthma or other lung diseases
    * Cardiac arrest
    * Choking
    * Drug overdose, especially due to alcohol, narcotic painkillers, barbiturates, anesthetics, and other depressants
    * Fluid in the lungs
    * Obstructive sleep apnea

Other causes of apnea include:

    * Head injuryÂ or injury to the neck, mouth, and larynx (voice box)
    * Heart attack
    * Irregular heartbeat
    * Metabolic (body chemical, mineral, and acid-base) disorders
    * Near drowning
    * Stroke and other brain and nervous system (neurological) disorders
    * Injury to the chest wall, heart, or lungsÂ   

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Seek immediate medical attention or call your local emergency number (such as
911) if a person with any type of breathing problem:

    * Becomes limp
    * Has a seizure
    * Is not alert (loses consciousness)
    * Remains drowsy
    * Turns blue

If a person has stopped breathing, call for emergency help and perform CPR (if
you know how). When in a public place, look for an automated external
defibrillator (AED) and follow the directions.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

CPR or other emergency measures will be done in an emergency room or by an
ambulance emergency medical technician (EMT) or paramedic.

Once the person is stable, the health care provider will do a physical exam,
which includes listening to heart sounds and breath sounds.

Questions will be asked about the person's medical history and symptoms,
including:

TIME PATTERN

    * Has this ever happened before?
    * How long did the event last?
    * Has the person had repeated, brief episodes of apnea?
    * Did the episode end with a sudden deep, snorting breath?
    * Did the episode occur while awake or asleep?

RECENT HEALTH HISTORY

    * Has the person had a recent accident or injury?
    * Has the person been ill recently?
    * Was there any breathing difficulty before breathing stopped?
    * What other symptoms have you noticed?
    * What medicines does the person take?
    * Does the person use street or recreational drugs?

Diagnostic tests and treatments that may be done include:

    * Airway support, including oxygen, breathing tube through the mouth (intubation), and breathing machine (ventilator)
    * Blood and urine tests
    * Chest tube
    * Chest x-ray
    * CT scan
    * Defibrillation (electrical shock to the heart)  

    * ECG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing)
    * Fluids through a vein (intravenous or IV)
    * Medicines to treat symptoms, including antidotes to reverse the effects of a poisoning or overdose

## Alternative Names

Respiration slowed or stopped; Not breathing; Respiratory arrest; Apnea

## References

Kelly A-M. Respiratory emergencies. In: Cameron P, Jelinek G, Kelly A-M, Brown
A, Little M, eds. _Textbook of Adult Emergency Medicine_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone; 2015:chap 6.

Kurz MC, Neumar RW. Adult resuscitation. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-
Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 8.

Roosevelt GE. Pediatric respiratory emergencies: diseases of the lungs. In:
Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine:
Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap
169.

## Review Date 1/12/2019

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Breathing_thumb.jpg)Breathing Problems
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

