Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003071.htm    
                                Description: Hyperventilation is rapid and deep breathing. It is also called overbreathing, and it may leave you feeling breathless.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hyperventilation

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003071.htm

# Hyperventilation

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hyperventilation is rapid and deep breathing. It is also called overbreathing,
and it may leave you feeling breathless.

## Considerations

You breathe in oxygen and breathe out carbon dioxide. Excessive breathing
creates a low level of carbon dioxide in your blood. This causes many of the
symptoms of hyperventilation.

You may hyperventilate from an emotional cause such as during a panic attack.
Or, it can be due to a medical problem, such as bleeding or infection.

Your health care provider will determine the cause of your hyperventilation.
Rapid breathing may be a medical emergency and you need to get treated, unless
you have had this before and your provider has told you that you can treat it
on your own.

If you frequently overbreathe, you may have a medical problem called
hyperventilation syndrome.

When you're overbreathing, you might not be aware you're breathing fast and
deep. But you'll likely be aware of the other symptoms, including:

    * Feeling lightheaded, dizzy, weak, or not able to think straight
    * Feeling as if you can't catch your breath
    * Chest pain or fast and pounding heartbeat
    * Belching or bloating
    * Dry mouth
    * Muscle spasms in the hands and feet
    * Numbness and tingling in the arms or around the mouth
    * Problems sleeping

## Causes

Emotional causes include:

    * Anxiety and nervousness
    * Panic attack
    * Situations where there is a psychological advantage in having a sudden, dramatic illness (for example, somatization disorder)
    * Stress

Medical causes include:

    * Bleeding
    * Heart problem such as heart failure or heart attack
    * Drugs (such as an aspirin overdose)
    * Infection such as pneumonia or sepsis
    * Ketoacidosis and similar medical conditions
    * Lung disease such as asthma,Â COPD, or pulmonary embolism
    * Pregnancy
    * Severe pain
    * Stimulant medicines

## Home Care

Your provider will examine you for other causes of your overbreathing.

If your provider has said your hyperventilation is due to anxiety, stress, or
panic, there are steps you can take at home. You, your friends, and family can
learn techniques to stop it from happening and prevent future attacks.

If you start hyperventilating, the goal is to raise the carbon dioxide level
in your blood. This will end most of your symptoms. Ways to do this include:

    1. Get reassurance from a friend or family member to help relax your breathing. Words like "you are doing fine," "you are not having a heart attack," and "you are not going to die" are very helpful. It's very important that the person stays calm and uses a soft, relaxed tone.
    2. To help get rid of carbon dioxide, learn to do pursed lip breathing. This is done by puckering your lips as if you're blowing out a candle, then breathing out slowly through your lips.

Over the long term, measures to help you stop overbreathing include:

    1. If you have been diagnosed with anxiety or panic, see a mental health professional to help you understand and treat your condition. 
    2. Learn breathing exercises that help you relax and breathe from your diaphragm and abdomen, rather than from your chest wall. 
    3. Practice relaxation techniques, such as progressive muscle relaxation or meditation. 
    4. Exercise regularly. 

If these methods alone don't prevent overbreathing, your provider may
recommend medicine.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You are having rapid breathing for the first time. This is a medical emergency and you should be taken to the emergency room right away.
    * You are in pain, have a fever, or are bleeding.
    * Your hyperventilation continues or gets worse, even with home treatment.
    * You also have other symptoms.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will perform a physical exam and ask about your symptoms.

Your breathing will also be checked. If you are not breathing quickly at the
time, the provider may try to cause hyperventilation by telling you to breathe
in a certain way. The provider will then watch how you breathe and check which
muscles you're using to breathe.

Tests that may be ordered include:

    * Blood tests for the oxygen and carbon dioxide levels in your blood 
    * Chest CT scan
    * ECG to check your heart 
    * Ventilation/perfusion scan of your lungs to measure breathing and lung circulation
    * X-rays of the chest

## Alternative Names

Rapid deep breathing; Breathing - rapid and deep; Overbreathing; Fast deep
breathing; Respiratory rate - rapid and deep; Hyperventilation syndrome; Panic
attack - hyperventilation; Anxiety - hyperventilation

## References

Braithwaite SA, Perina D. Dyspnea. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 22.

Schwartzstein RM, Adams L. Dyspnea. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et
al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 29.

## Review Date 6/28/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Anxiety](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Anxiety_thumb.jpg)Anxiety _Read
more_

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Breathing_thumb.jpg)Breathing Problems
_Read more_

![Anxiety](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Anxiety_thumb.jpg)Panic Disorder
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

