Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003074.htm    
                                Description: Stridor is an abnormal, high-pitched, musical breathing sound. It is caused by a blockage in the throat or voice box (larynx). It is most often heard when taking in a breath.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Stridor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003074.htm

# Stridor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Stridor is an abnormal, high-pitched, musical breathing sound. It is caused by
a blockage in the throat or voice box (larynx). It is most often heard when
taking in a breath.

## Considerations

Children are at higher risk of airway blockage because they have narrower
airways than adults. In young children, stridor is a sign of airway blockage.
It must be treated right away to prevent the airway from becoming completely
closed.

The airway can be blocked by an object, swollen tissues of the throat or upper
airway, or a spasm of the airway muscles or the vocal cords.

## Causes

Common causes of stridor include:

    * Airway injury
    * Allergic reaction
    * Problem breathing and a barking cough (croup)
    * Diagnostic tests such as bronchoscopy or laryngoscopy
    * Epiglottitis, inflammation of the cartilage that covers the windpipe
    * Inhaling an object such as a peanut or marble (foreign body aspiration)
    * Swelling and irritation of the voice box (laryngitis)
    * Neck surgery
    * Use of a breathing tube for a long time
    * Secretions such as phlegm (sputum)
    * Smoke inhalation or other inhalation injury
    * Swelling of the neck or face
    * Swollen tonsils or adenoids (such as with tonsillitis)
    * Vocal cord cancer

## Home Care

Follow yourÂ health care provider'sÂ advice to treat the cause of the problem.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Stridor may be a sign of an emergency. Call your provider right away if there
is unexplained stridor, especially in a child.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

In an emergency, the provider will check the person's temperature, pulse,
breathing rate, and blood pressure, and may need to do abdominal thrusts.

A breathing tube may be needed if the person can't breathe properly.

After the person is stable, the provider may ask about the person's medical
history, and perform a physical exam. This includes listening to the lungs.

Parents or caregivers may be asked the following medical history questions:

    * Is the abnormal breathing a high-pitched sound?
    * Did the breathing problem start suddenly?
    * Could the child have put something in their mouth?
    * Has the child been ill recently?
    * Is the child's neck or face swollen?
    * Has the child been coughing or complaining of a sore throat?
    * What other symptoms does the child have? (For example, nasal flaring or a bluish color to the skin, lips, or nails)
    * Is the child using chest muscles to breathe (intercostal retractions)?

Tests that may be done include:

    * Arterial blood gas analysis
    * Bronchoscopy
    * Chest CT scan
    * Laryngoscopy (examination of the voice box)
    * Pulse oximetry to measure blood oxygen level
    * X-ray of the chest or neck 

## Alternative Names

Breathing sounds - abnormal; Extrathoracic airway obstruction; Wheezing -
stridor

## References

Kost S. Stridor. In: Selbst SM, ed. _Pediatric Emergency Medicine Secrets_.
3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 26.

O'Handley JG, Tobin EJ, Shah AR. Otorhinolaryngology. Rakel RE, Rakel DP, eds.
_Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap
18.

## Review Date 5/20/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Breathing_thumb.jpg)Breathing Problems
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

