Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007310.htm    
                                Description: Acquired tracheomalacia is a weakness and floppiness of the walls of the windpipe (trachea, or airway). It develops after birth.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Tracheomalacia - acquired

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007310.htm

# Tracheomalacia - acquired

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Acquired tracheomalacia is a weakness and floppiness of the walls of the
windpipe (trachea, or airway). It develops after birth.

Congenital tracheomalacia is a related topic.

## Causes

Acquired tracheomalacia is very uncommon at any age. It occurs when normal
cartilage in the wall of the windpipe begins to break down.

This form of tracheomalacia may result:

    * When large blood vessels put pressure on the airway 
    * As a complication after surgery to repair birth defects in the windpipe and esophagus (the tube that carries food from the mouth to the stomach)
    * After having a breathing tube or trachea tube (tracheostomy) for a long time

## Symptoms

Symptoms of tracheomalacia include:

    * Breathing problems that get worse with coughing, crying, or upper respiratory infections, such as a cold
    * Breathing noises that may change when body position changes, and improve during sleep
    * High-pitched breathing
    * Rattling, noisy breaths

## Exams and Tests

A physical exam confirms the symptoms. A chest x-ray may show narrowing of the
trachea when breathing out. Even if the x-ray is normal, it is needed to rule
out other problems.

A procedure called a laryngoscopy is used to diagnose the condition. This
procedure allows the otolaryngologist (ear, nose, and throat doctor, or ENT)
to see the structure of the airway and determine how severe the problem is.

Other tests may include:

    * Airway fluoroscopy
    * Barium swallow
    * Bronchoscopy
    * CT scan
    * Lung function tests
    * Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) 

## Treatment

The condition may improve without treatment. However, people with
tracheomalacia must be monitored closely when they have respiratory
infections.

Adults with breathing problems may need continuous positive airway pressure
(CPAP). Rarely, surgery is needed. A hollow tube called a stent may be placed
to hold the airway open.

## Possible Complications

Aspiration pneumonia (a lung infection) can occur from breathing in food.

Adults who develop tracheomalacia after being on a breathing machine often
have serious lung problems.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you or your child breathes in an abnormal
way. Tracheomalacia can become an urgent or emergency condition.

## Alternative Names

Secondary tracheomalacia

## Images

    * ![Respiratory system overview](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9828t.jpg)Respiratory system overview

## References

Finder JD. Bronchomalacia and tracheomalacia. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW,
Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_.
21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 416.

Little BP. Tracheal diseases. In: Walker CM, Chung JH, eds. _Muller's Imaging
of the Chest_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 56.

Nelson M, Green G, Ohye RG. Pediatric tracheal anomalies. In: Flint PW,
Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head & Neck
Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 206.

## Review Date 5/17/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Breathing_thumb.jpg)Breathing Problems
_Read more_

![Tracheal
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TrachealDisorders_thumb.jpg)Tracheal
Disorders _Read more_

![Uncommon Infant and Newborn
Problems](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UncommonInfantandNewbornProblems_thumb.jpg)Uncommon
Infant and Newborn Problems _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

