Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007563.htm    
                                Description: The inside walls of the nose have 3 pairs of long thin bones covered with a layer of tissue that can expand. These bones are called nasal turbinates.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Turbinate surgery

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007563.htm

# Turbinate surgery

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The inside walls of the nose have 3 pairs of long thin bones covered with a
layer of tissue that can expand. These bones are called nasal turbinates.

Allergies or other nasal problems can cause the turbinates to swell and block
airflow. Surgery can be done to fix blocked airways and improve your
breathing.

## Description

There are several types of turbinate surgery:

Turbinectomy:

    * All or part of the lower turbinate is taken out. This can be done in several different ways, but sometimes a tiny, high-speed device (microdebrider) is used to shave off the extra tissue.
    * The surgery may be done through a lighted camera (endoscope) that is placed into the nose.
    * You may have general anesthesia or local anesthesia with sedation, so you are asleep and pain-free during surgery.

Turbinoplasty:

    * A tool is placed in the nose to change the position of the turbinate. This is called the outfracture technique.
    * Some of the tissue may also be shaved off.
    * You may have general anesthesia or local anesthesia with sedation, so you are asleep and pain-free during surgery. 

Radiofrequency or laser ablation:

    * A thin probe is placed into the nose. Laser light or radiofrequency energy goes through this tube and shrinks the turbinate tissue.
    * The procedure can be done in the health care provider's office using local anesthesia.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Your provider may recommend this procedure if:

    * You have trouble breathing though your nose because the airways are swollen or blocked.
    * Other treatments, such as allergy medicines, allergy shots, and nose sprays have not helped your breathing. 

## Risks

Risks for any surgery are:

    * Allergic reactions to medicines
    * Breathing problems
    * Heart problems
    * Bleeding
    * Infection

Risks for this surgery are:

    * Scar tissue or crusting in the nose
    * A hole in the tissue that divides the sides of the nose (septum)
    * Loss of feeling in the skin on the nose 
    * Change in the sense of smell
    * Fluid buildup in the nose
    * Return of the nasal blockage after surgery 

## Before the Procedure

Always tell your provider:

    * If you are or could be pregnant
    * What drugs you are taking, including medicines, supplements, or herbs you bought without a prescription
    * If you have more than 1 or 2 alcoholic drinks a day

During the days before your surgery:

    * You may be asked to stop taking aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn), clopidogrel (Plavix), warfarin (Coumadin), and any other medicines that make it hard for your blood to clot.
    * Ask your provider which medicines you should still take on the day of your surgery.

On the day of your surgery:

    * You will be asked not to drink or eat anything after midnight the night before your surgery.
    * Take the medicines you have been told to take with a small sip of water.
    * Your provider will tell you when to arrive at the hospital.

## After the Procedure

Many people have good short-term relief from radioablation. Symptoms of nasal
blockage may come back, but many people still have better breathing 2 years
after the procedure.

Almost all people who have turbinoplasty with a microdebrider will still have
improved breathing 3 years after surgery. Some do not need to use nasal
medicine anymore.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

You will go home on the same day as surgery.

You will have some discomfort and pain in your face for 2 or 3 days. Your nose
will feel blocked until the swelling goes down.

The nurse will show you how to take care of your nose during your recovery.

You will be able to go back to work or school in 1 week. You can return to
your normal activities after 1 week.

It may take up to 2 months to heal completely.

## Alternative Names

Turbinectomy; Turbinoplasty; Turbinate reduction; Nasal airway surgery; Nasal
obstruction - turbinate surgery

## References

Corren J, Baroody FM, Pawankar R. Allergic and nonallergic rhinitis. In:
Adkinson NF, Bochner BS, Burks AW, et al, eds. _Middleton's Allergy:
Principles and Practice_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2014:chap 42.

Joe SA, Liu JZ. Nonallergic rhinitis. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al,
eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head and Neck Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 43.

Otto BA, Barnes C. Surgery of the turbinate. In: Myers EN, Snyderman CH, eds.
_Operative Otolaryngology Head and Neck Surgery_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 97.

Ramakrishnan JB. Septoplasty and turbinate surgery. In: Scholes MA,
Ramakrishnan VR, eds. _ENT Secrets_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 27.

## Review Date 11/4/2018

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Breathing_thumb.jpg)Breathing Problems
_Read more_

![Nose Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NoseInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Nose
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

