Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007535.htm    
                                Description: Breath sounds are the noises produced by the structures of the lungs during breathing.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Breath sounds

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007535.htm

# Breath sounds

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Breath sounds are the noises produced by the structures of the lungs during
breathing.

![Breath sounds](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/23267.jpg)

## Considerations

The lung sounds are best heard with a stethoscope. This is called
auscultation.

Normal lung sounds occur in all parts of the chest area, including above the
collarbones and at the bottom of the rib cage.

![Lungs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/1103.jpg)

Using a stethoscope, the doctor may hear normal breathing sounds, decreased or
absent breath sounds, and abnormal breath sounds.

Absent or decreased sounds can mean:

    * Air or fluid in or around the lungs (such as pneumonia, heart failure, and pleural effusion)
    * Increased thickness of the chest wall
    * Over-inflation of a part of the lungs (emphysema can cause this)
    * Reduced airflow to part of the lungs 

There are several types of abnormal breath sounds. The 4 most common are:

    * Rales. Small clicking, bubbling, or rattling sounds in the lungs. They are heard when a person breathes in (inhales). They are believed to occur when air opens closed air spaces. Rales can be further described as moist, dry, fine, or coarse.
    * Rhonchi. Sounds that resemble snoring. They occur when air is blocked or air flow becomes rough through the large airways.
    * Stridor. Wheeze-like sound heard when a person breathes. Usually it is due to a blockage of airflow in the windpipe (trachea) or in the back of the throat.
    * Wheezing. High-pitched sounds produced by narrowed airways. Wheezing and other abnormal sounds can sometimes be heard without a stethoscope. 

## Causes

Causes of abnormal breath sounds may include:

    * Acute bronchitis
    * Asthma
    * Bronchiectasis
    * Chronic bronchitis
    * Congestive heart failure
    * Emphysema
    * Interstitial lung disease
    * Foreign body obstruction of the airway
    * Pneumonia
    * Pulmonary edema
    * Tracheobronchitis 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Seek immediate medical care if you have:

    * Cyanosis (bluish discoloration of the skin)
    * Nasal flaring
    * Severe trouble breathing or shortness of breath 

Contact your health care provider if you have wheezing or other abnormal
breathing sounds.

Your provider will do a physical exam and ask you questions about your medical
history and your breathing.

Questions may include:

    * When did the breath sound start?
    * How long did it last?
    * How would you describe your breathing?
    * What makes it better or worse?
    * What other symptoms do you have? 

The provider discovers abnormal breath sounds in most cases. You may not even
notice them.

The following tests may be done:

    * Analysis of a sputum sample (sputum culture, sputum Gram stain)
    * Blood tests (including an arterial blood gas)
    * Chest x-ray
    * CT scan of the chest
    * Pulmonary function tests
    * Pulse oximetry

## Alternative Names

Lung sounds; Breathing sounds

## Images

    * ![Lungs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1103t.jpg)Lungs
    * ![Breath sounds](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23267t.jpg)Breath sounds

## References

Ball JW, Dains JE, Flynn JA, Solomon BS, Stewart RW. Chest and lungs. In: Ball
JW, Dains JE, Flynn JA, Solomon BS, Stewart RW, eds. _Siedel's Guide to
Physical Examination_. 9th ed. St. Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2019:chap 14.

Kraft M. Approach to the patient with respiratory disease. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 83.

## Review Date 5/6/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Breathing_thumb.jpg)Breathing Problems
_Read more_

![Lung Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LungDiseases_thumb.jpg)Lung
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

