Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003076.htm    
                                Description: Breathing difficulty while lying down is an abnormal condition in which a person has a problem breathing normally when lying flat. The head must be raised by sitting or standing to be able to breathe deeply    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Breathing difficulty - lying down

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003076.htm

# Breathing difficulty - lying down

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Breathing difficulty while lying down is an abnormal condition in which a
person has a problem breathing normally when lying flat. The head must be
raised by sitting or standing to be able to breathe deeply or comfortably.

A type of breathing difficulty while lying down is paroxysmal nocturnal
dyspnea. This condition causes a person to wake up suddenly during the night
feeling short of breath.

## Considerations

This is a common complaint in people with some types of heart or lung
problems. Sometimes the problem is subtle. People may only notice it when they
realize that sleep is more comfortable with lots of pillows under their head,
or their head in a propped-up position.

## Causes

Causes may include:

    * Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)
    * Cor pulmonale
    * Heart failure
    * Obesity (does not directly cause difficulty breathing while lying down but often worsens other conditions that lead to it)
    * Panic disorder
    * Sleep apnea
    * Snoring

## Home Care

Your health care provider may recommend self-care measures. For example,
weight loss may be suggested if you are obese.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

If you have any unexplained difficulty in breathing while lying down, call
your provider.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will perform a physical exam and ask questions about the problem.

Questions may include:

    * Did this problem develop suddenly or slowly?
    * Is it getting worse (progressive)?
    * How bad is it?
    * How many pillows do you need to help you breathe comfortably?
    * Is there any ankle, foot, or leg swelling?
    * Do you have difficulty breathing at other times?
    * How tall are you? How much do you weigh? Has your weight changed recently?
    * What other symptoms do you have? 

The physical exam will include special attention to the heart and lungs
(cardiovascular and respiratory systems).

Tests that may be performed include the following:

    * Chest x-ray
    * ECG
    * Echocardiogram
    * Pulmonary function tests

Treatment depends on the cause of the breathing problem.

You may need to use oxygen.

## Alternative Names

Waking at night short of breath; Paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea; PND; Difficulty
breathing while lying down; Orthopnea; Heart failure - orthopnea

## Images

    * ![Breathing](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9026t.jpg)Breathing

## References

Braithwaite SA, Perina D. Dyspnea. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 22.

Davis JL, Murray JF. History and physical examination. In: Broaddus VC, Mason
RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory
Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 16.

Januzzi JL, Mann DL. Approach to the patient with heart failure. In: Zipes DP,
Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, et al. eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook
of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap
21.

O'Connor CM, Rogers JG. Heart failure: pathophysiology and diagnosis. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 58.

## Review Date 1/19/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Breathing_thumb.jpg)Breathing Problems
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

