Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003075.htm    
                                Description: Breathing difficulty may involve:    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Breathing difficulty

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003075.htm

# Breathing difficulty

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Breathing difficulty may involve:

    * Difficult breathing
    * Uncomfortable breathing
    * Feeling like you are not getting enough air

## Considerations

There is no standard definition for difficulty breathing. Some people feel
breathless with only mild exercise (for example, climbing stairs), even though
they don't have a medical condition. Others may have advanced lung disease,
but may never feel short of breath.

Wheezing is one form of breathing difficulty in which you make a high-pitched
sound when you breathe out.

## Causes

Shortness of breath has many different causes. For example, heart disease can
cause breathlessness if your heart is unable to pump enough blood to supply
oxygen to your body. If your brain, muscles, or other body organs do not get
enough oxygen, a sense of breathlessness may occur.

Breathing difficulty may also be due to problems with the lungs, airways, or
other health problems.

Problems with the lungs:

    * Blood clot in the arteries of the lungs (pulmonary embolism)
    * Swelling and mucus buildup in the smallest air passages in the lungs (bronchiolitis)
    * Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), such as chronic bronchitis or emphysema
    * Pneumonia
    * High blood pressure in the arteries of the lungs (pulmonary hypertension)
    * Other lung disease 
![Emphysema](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/17055.jpg)

Problems with the airways leading to the lungs:

    * Blockage of the air passages in your nose, mouth, or throat
    * Choking on something stuck in the airways
    * Swelling around the vocal cords (croup)
    * Inflammation of the tissue (epiglottis) that covers the windpipe (epiglottitis) 

Problems with the heart:

    * Chest pain due to poor blood flow through the blood vessels of the heart (angina)
    * Heart attack
    * Heart defects from birth (congenital heart disease)
    * Heart failure
    * Heart rhythm disturbances (arrhythmias) 

Other causes:

    * Allergies (such as to mold, dander, or pollen)
    * High altitudes where there is less oxygen in the air
    * Compression of the chest wall
    * Dust in the environment
    * Emotional distress, such as anxiety
    * Hiatal hernia (condition in which part of the stomach extends through an opening of the diaphragm into the chest)
    * Obesity
    * Panic attacks
    * Anemia (low hemoglobin)
    * Blood problems (when your blood cells cannot pick up oxygen normally; the disease methemoglobinemia is an example)

## Home Care

Sometimes, mild breathing difficulty may be normal and is not a cause for
concern. A very stuffy nose is one example. Strenuous exercise, especially
when you do not exercise often, is another example.

If breathing difficulty is new or is getting worse, it may be due to a serious
problem. Though many causes are not dangerous and are easily treated, call
your health care provider for any breathing difficulty.

If you are being treated for a long-term problem with your lungs or heart,
follow your provider's directions to help with that problem.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Go to the emergency room or call the local emergency number (such as 911) if:

    * Breathing difficulty comes on suddenly or seriously interferes with your breathing and even talking
    * Someone completely stops breathing 

See your provider if any of the following occur with breathing difficulties:

    * Chest discomfort, pain, or pressure. These are symptoms of angina.
    * Fever.
    * Shortness of breath after only slight activity or while at rest.
    * Shortness of breath that wakes you up at night or requires you to sleep propped up to breathe.
    * Shortness of breath with simple talking.
    * Tightness in the throat or a barking, croupy cough.
    * You have breathed in or choked on an object (foreign object aspiration or ingestion).
    * Wheezing.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will examine you. You'll be asked about your medical history and
symptoms. Questions may include how long you've had difficulty breathing and
when it started. You may also be asked if anything worsens it and if you make
grunting or wheezing sounds when breathing.

Tests that may be ordered include:

    * Blood oxygen saturation (pulse oximetry)
    * Blood tests (may include arterial blood gases)
    * Chest x-ray
    * CT scan of the chest
    * Electrocardiogram (ECG)
    * Echocardiogram
    * Exercise testing
    * Pulmonary function tests

If the breathing difficulty is severe, you may need to go to a hospital. You
may receive medicines to treat the cause of breathing difficulty.

If your blood oxygen level is very low, you may need oxygen.

## Alternative Names

Shortness of breath; Breathlessness; Difficulty breathing; Dyspnea

## Patient Instructions

    * How to breathe when you are short of breath
    * Interstitial lung disease - adults - discharge
    * Oxygen safety
    * Traveling with breathing problems
    * Using oxygen at home

## Images

    * ![Lungs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1103t.jpg)Lungs
    * ![Emphysema](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17055t.jpg)Emphysema

## References

Braithwaite SA, Perina D. Dyspnea. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 22.

Kraft M. Approach to the patient with respiratory disease. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 83.

Schwartzstein RM, Adams L. Dyspnea. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et
al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 29.

## Review Date 5/16/2019

Updated by: Denis Hadjiliadis, MD, MHS, Paul F. Harron, Jr. Associate
Professor of Medicine, Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care, Perelman School
of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Breathing_thumb.jpg)Breathing Problems
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

