Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000085.htm    
                                Description: Obesity hypoventilation syndrome (OHS) is a condition in some obese people in which poor breathing leads to lower oxygen and higher carbon dioxide levels in the blood.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Obesity hypoventilation syndrome (OHS)

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000085.htm

# Obesity hypoventilation syndrome (OHS)

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Obesity hypoventilation syndrome (OHS) is a condition in some obese people in
which poor breathing leads to lower oxygen and higher carbon dioxide levels in
the blood.

## Causes

The exact cause of OHS is not known. Researchers believe OHS results from a
defect in the brain's control over breathing. Excess weight against the chest
wall also makes it harder for the muscles to draw in a deep breath and to
breathe quickly enough. This worsens the brain's breathing control. As a
result, the blood contains too much carbon dioxide and not enough oxygen.

## Symptoms

The main symptoms of OHS are due to lack of sleep and include:

    * Poor sleep quality
    * Sleep apnea
    * Daytime sleepiness
    * Depression
    * Headaches
    * Tiredness

Symptoms of low blood oxygen level (chronic hypoxia) can also occur. Symptoms
include shortness of breath or feeling tired after very little effort.

## Exams and Tests

People with OHS are usually very overweight. A physical exam may reveal:

    * Bluish color in the lips, fingers, toes, or skin (cyanosis)
    * Reddish skin
    * Signs of right-sided heart failure (cor pulmonale), such as swollen legs or feet, shortness of breath, or feeling tired after little effort
    * Signs of excessive sleepiness

Tests used to help diagnose and confirm OHS include:

    * Arterial blood gas
    * Chest x-ray or CT scan to rule out other possible causes
    * LungÂ function tests (pulmonary function tests)
    * Sleep study (polysomnography)
    * Echocardiogram (ultrasound of the heart)

Health care providers can tell OHS from obstructive sleep apnea becauseÂ a
person with OHS has aÂ high carbon dioxide level in their blood when awake.

## Treatment

Treatment involves breathing assistance using special machines (mechanical
ventilation). Options include:

    * Noninvasive mechanical ventilation such as continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) or bilevel positive airway pressure (BiPAP) through a mask that fits tightly over the nose or nose and mouth (mainly for sleep)
    * Oxygen therapy
    * Breathing help through an opening in the neck (tracheostomy) for severe cases 

Treatment is started in the hospital or as an outpatient.

Other treatments are aimed at weight loss, which can reverse OHS.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Untreated,Â OHS can lead to serious heart and blood vessel problems, severe
disability, or death.

## Possible Complications

OHS complications related to a lack of sleep may include:

    * Depression, agitation, irritability
    * Increased risk for accidents or mistakes at work
    * Problems with intimacy and sex 

OHS can also cause heart problems, such as:

    * High blood pressure (hypertension)
    * Right-sided heart failure (cor pulmonale)
    * High blood pressure in the lungs (pulmonary hypertension) 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you are very tired during the day or have any other
symptoms that suggest OHS.

## Prevention

Maintain a healthy weight and avoid obesity. UseÂ your CPAP or BiPAP treatment
as your provider prescribed.

## Alternative Names

Pickwickian syndrome

## Images

    * ![Respiratory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9248t.jpg)Respiratory system

## References

Malhotra A, Powell F. Disorders of ventilatory control. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2020:chap 80.

Mokhlesi B. Obesity-hypoventilation syndrome. In: Kryger M, Roth T, Dement WC,
eds. _Principles and Practice of Sleep Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 120.

Mokhlesi B, Masa JF, Brozek JL, et al. Evaluation and management of obesity
hypoventilation syndrome. An official American Thoracic Society clinical
practice guideline. _Am J Respir Crit Care Med_. 2019;200(3):e6-e24. PMID:
31368798 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31368798.

## Review Date 7/23/2019

Updated by: Denis Hadjiliadis, MD, MHS, Paul F. Harron, Jr. Associate
Professor of Medicine, Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care, Perelman School
of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Breathing_thumb.jpg)Breathing Problems
_Read more_

![Obesity](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Obesity_thumb.jpg)Obesity _Read
more_

![Sleep Apnea](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SleepApnea_thumb.jpg)Sleep Apnea
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

