Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000967.htm    
                                Description: Some children have breath holding spells. This is an involuntary stop in breathing that is not in the child    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Breath holding spell

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000967.htm

# Breath holding spell

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Some children have breath holding spells. This is an involuntary stop in
breathing that is not in the child's control.

## Causes

Babies as young as 2 months old and up to 2 years old can start having breath
holding spells. Some children have severe spells.

Children can have breath holding spells when they are responding to:

    * Fear
    * Pain
    * Traumatic event
    * Being startled or confronted 

Breath holding spells are more common in children with:

    * Genetic conditions, such as Riley-Day syndrome or Rett syndrome
    * Iron deficiency anemia
    * A family history of breath holding spells (parents may have had similar spells when they were children) 

## Symptoms

Breath holding spells most often occur when a child becomes suddenly upset or
surprised. The child makes a short gasp, exhales, and stops breathing. The
child's nervous system slows the heart rate or breathing for a short amount of
time. Breath holding spells are not thought to be a willful act of defiance,
even though they often occur with temper tantrums. Symptoms can include:

    * Blue or pale skin
    * Crying, then no breathing
    * Fainting or loss of alertness (unconsciousness)
    * Jerky movements (short, seizure-like movements) 

Normal breathing starts again after a brief period of unconsciousness. The
child's color improves with the first breath. This may occur several times per
day, or only on rare occasions.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask questions about
the child's medical history and symptoms.

Blood tests may be done to check for an iron deficiency.

Other tests that may be done include:

    * EKG to check the heart
    * EEG to check for seizures

## Treatment

No treatment is usually needed. But iron drops or pills may be given if the
child has an iron deficiency.

Breath holding can be a frightening experience for parents. If your child has
been diagnosed with breath holding spells, take the following steps:

    * During a spell, make sure your child is in a safe place where they will not fall or be hurt.
    * Place a cold cloth on your child's forehead during a spell to help shorten the episode.
    * After the spell, try to be calm. Avoid giving too much attention to the child, as this can reinforce the behaviors that led to the spell.
    * Avoid situations that cause a child's temper tantrums. This can help reduce the number of spells.
    * Ignore breath holding spells that do not cause your child to faint. Ignore the spell in the same way you ignore temper tantrums. 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most children outgrow breath holding spells by the time they are 4 to 8 years
old.

Children who have a seizure during a breath holding spell are not at higher
risk of having seizures otherwise.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your child's provider if:

    * You think your child is having breath holding spells
    * Your child's breath holding spells are getting worse or happening more often

Call 911 or your local emergency number if:

    * Your child stops breathing or has trouble breathing
    * Your child has seizures for more than 1 minute 

## References

Mikati MA, Obeid MM. Conditions that mimic seizures. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton
BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 594.

Roddy SM. Breath-holding spells and reflex anoxic seizures. In: Swaiman KF,
Ashwal S, Ferriero DM, et al, eds. _Swaiman's Pediatric Neurology: Principles
and Practice_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 85.Â

## Review Date 10/18/2017

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Breathing_thumb.jpg)Breathing Problems
_Read more_

![Rett Syndrome](https://medlineplus.gov/images/RettSyndrome_thumb.jpg)Rett
Syndrome _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

