Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000078.htm    
                                Description: Primary alveolar hypoventilation is a rare disorder in which a person does not take enough breaths per minute. The lungs and airways are normal.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Primary alveolar hypoventilation

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000078.htm

# Primary alveolar hypoventilation

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Primary alveolar hypoventilation is a rare disorder in which a person does not
take enough breaths per minute. The lungs and airways are normal.

## Causes

Normally, when the oxygen level in the bloodÂ is low or the carbon dioxide
level isÂ high, there is a signal from the brain to breathe more deeply or
quickly. In people with primary alveolar hypoventilation, this change in
breathing does not happen.

The cause of this condition is unknown. Some people have a specific genetic
defect.

The disease mainly affects men 20 to 50 years old. It may also occur in
children.

## Symptoms

Symptoms are usually worse during sleep. Episodes of stopped breathing (apnea)
often occur while sleeping. Often there is no shortness of breath during the
day.

Symptoms include:

    * Bluish coloration of the skin caused by lack of oxygen
    * Daytime drowsiness
    * Fatigue
    * Morning headaches
    * Swelling of the ankles
    * Waking up from sleep unrested
    * Waking up many times at night 

People with this disease are very sensitive to even small doses of sedatives
or narcotics. These drugs can make their breathing problem much worse.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about symptoms.

Tests will be done to rule out other causes. For example, muscular dystrophy
can make the rib muscles weak, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
(COPD) damages the lung tissue itself. A small stroke can affect the breathing
center in the brain.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Measuring levels of oxygen and carbon dioxide in the blood (arterial blood gases)  

    * Chest x-ray or CT scan
    * Hematocrit and hemoglobin blood testsÂ tests to check oxygen carrying ability of red blood cells
    * Lung function tests
    * Overnight oxygen level measurements (oximetry)
    * Blood gases
    * Sleep study (polysomnography) 

## Treatment

Medicines that stimulate the respiratory system may be used but do not always
work. Mechanical devices that assist breathing, particularly at night, may be
helpful in some people. Oxygen therapy may help in a few people, but may
worsen night symptoms in others.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Response to treatment varies.

## Possible Complications

Low blood oxygen level can cause high blood pressure in the lung blood
vessels. This can lead to cor pulmonale (right-sided heart failure).

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of this disorder. Seek medical care
right away if bluish skin (cyanosis) occurs.

## Prevention

There is no known prevention. You should avoid using sleep medicines or other
drugs that can cause drowsiness.

## Alternative Names

Ondine's curse; Ventilatory failure; Diminished hypoxic ventilator drive;
Diminished hypercapnic ventilator drive

## Images

    * ![Respiratory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9248t.jpg)Respiratory system

## References

Cielo C, Marcus CL. Central hypoventilation syndromes. _Sleep Med Clin_.
2014;9:105-118. PMID: 24678286 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24678286.

Malhotra A, Powell F. Disorders of ventilatory control. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 86.

Weinberger SE, Cockrill BA, Mandel J. Disorders of ventilatory control. In:
Weinberger SE, Cockrill BA, Mandel J, eds. _Principles of Pulmonary Medicine_.
7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 18.

## Review Date 7/28/2018

Updated by: Denis Hadjiliadis, MD, MHS, Paul F. Harron, Jr. Associate
Professor of Medicine, Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care, Perelman School
of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Breathing_thumb.jpg)Breathing Problems
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

