Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007233.htm    
                                Description: Transient tachypnea is a breathing disorder seen shortly after delivery in early term or late preterm babies.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Transient tachypnea - newborn

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007233.htm

# Transient tachypnea - newborn

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Transient tachypnea is a breathing disorder seen shortly after delivery in
early term or late preterm babies.

    * Transient means it is short-lived (most often less than 24 hours).
    * Tachypnea means rapid breathing (faster than most normal newborns, who breathe 40 to 60 times per minute).

## Causes

As the baby grows in the womb, the lungs make a special fluid. This fluid
fills the baby's lungs and helps them grow. When the baby is born at term,
chemicals released during labor tell the lungs to stop making this special
fluid. The baby's lungs start removing or reabsorbing it.

The first few breaths a baby takes after delivery fill the lungs with air and
help to clear most of the remaining lung fluid.

Leftover fluid in the lungs causes the baby to breathe rapidly. It is harder
for the small air sacs of the lungs to stay open.

Transient tachypnea is more likely to occur in babies who were:

    * Born before 38 weeks gestation (early term)
    * Delivered by C-section, especially if labor has not already started
    * Born to a mother with diabetes
    * Male

## Symptoms

Newborns with transient tachypnea haveÂ breathing problems soon after birth,
most often within 1 to 2 hours.

Symptoms include:

    * Bluish skin color (cyanosis)
    * Rapid breathing, which may occur with noises such as grunting
    * Flaring nostrils or movements between the ribs or breastbone known as retractions 

## Exams and Tests

The mother's pregnancy and labor history are important to make the diagnosis.

Tests performed on the baby may include:

    * Blood count and blood culture to rule out infection
    * Chest x-ray to rule out other causes of breathing problems
    * Continuous monitoring of the baby's oxygen levels, breathing, and heart rate

The diagnosis of transient tachypnea is most often made after the baby is
monitored for 1 or 2 days. If the condition goes away in that time, it is
considered to be transient.

## Treatment

Your baby will be given oxygen to keep the blood oxygen level stable. Your
baby will often need the most oxygen within a few hours after birth. The
baby's oxygen needs will begin to decrease after that. Most infants with
transient tachypnea improve in less than 12 to 24 hours, but some will need
help for a few days.

Very rapid breathing usually means a baby is unable to eat. Fluids and
nutrients will be given through a vein until your baby improves. Your baby may
also receive antibiotics until the health care provider is sure there is no
infection. Rarely, babies with transient tachypnea will need help with
breathing or feeding a week or more.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The condition most often goes away within 24 to 48 hours after delivery. In
most cases, babies who have had transient tachypnea have no further problems
from the condition. They will not need special care or follow-up other than
their routine checkups.

Late preterm or early term babies (born about 2 to 6 weeks before their due
date) who have been delivered by C-section without labor may be at risk for a
more severe form known as "malignant TTN."

## Alternative Names

TTN; Wet lungs - newborns; Retained fetal lung fluid; Transient RDS; Prolonged
transition; Neonatal - transient tachypnea

## References

Carlo WA, Ambalavanan N. Respiratory tract disorders. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton
BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 101.

Crowley MA. Neonatal respiratory disorders. In: Martin RJ, Fanaroff AA, Walsh
MC, eds. _Fanaroff and Martin's Neonatal-Perinatal Medicine: Diseases of the
Fetus and Infant_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 74.

Greenberg JM, Narendran V, Schibler KR, Warner BB, Haberman BE. Neonatal
morbidities of prenatal and perinatal origin. In: Creasy RK, Resnick R, Iams
JD, Lockwood CJ, Moore TR, Greene MF, eds. _Creasy and Resnik's Maternal-Fetal
Medicine: Principles and Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2014:chap 72.

## Review Date 12/13/2017

Updated by: Kimberly G. Lee, MD, MSc, IBCLC, Associate Professor of
Pediatrics, Division of Neonatology, Medical University of South Carolina,
Charleston, SC. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Breathing_thumb.jpg)Breathing Problems
_Read more_

![Lung Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LungDiseases_thumb.jpg)Lung
Diseases _Read more_

![Premature
Babies](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PrematureBabies_thumb.jpg)Premature
Babies _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

