Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000007.htm    
                                Description: Most people take breathing for granted. People with certain illnesses may have breathing problems that they deal with on a regular basis.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Breathing difficulties - first aid

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000007.htm

# Breathing difficulties - first aid

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Most people take breathing for granted. People with certain illnesses may have
breathing problems that they deal with on a regular basis.

This article discusses first aid for someone who is having unexpected
breathing problems.

Breathing difficulties can range from:

    * Being short of breath
    * Being unable to take a deep breath and gasping for air
    * Feeling like you are not getting enough air 

## Considerations

Breathing difficulty is almost always a medical emergency. An exception is
feeling slightly winded from normal activity, such as exercise.

## Causes

There are many different causes for breathing problems. Common causes include
some health conditions and sudden medical emergencies.

Some health conditions that may cause breathing problems are:

    * Anemia (low red blood cell count)
    * Asthma
    * Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), sometimes called emphysema or chronic bronchitis
    * Heart disease or heart failure
    * Lung cancer, or cancer that has spread to the lungs
    * Respiratory infections, including pneumonia, acute bronchitis, whooping cough, croup, and others

Some medical emergencies that can cause breathing problems are:

    * Being at a high altitude
    * Blood clot in the lung
    * Collapsed lung (pneumothorax)
    * Heart attack
    * Injury to the neck, chest wall, or lungs
    * Pericardial effusion (fluid surrounding the heart that can stop it from filling properly with blood)
    * Pleural effusion (fluid surrounding the lungs that can compress them)
    * Life-threatening allergic reaction
    * Near drowning, which causes fluid buildup in the lungs 

## Symptoms

People having breathing difficulty will often look uncomfortable. They may be:

    * Breathing rapidly
    * Unable to breathe lying down and need to sit up to breathe
    * Very anxious and agitated 
    * Sleepy or confused

They might have other symptoms, including:

    * Dizziness or lightheadedness
    * Pain
    * Fever
    * Cough
    * Nausea
    * Vomiting
    * Bluish lips, fingers, and fingernails
    * Chest moving in an unusual way
    * Gurgling, wheezing, or making whistling sounds
    * Muffled voice or difficulty speaking
    * Coughing up blood
    * Rapid or irregular heartbeat
    * Sweating 

If an allergy is causing the breathing problem, they might have a rash or
swelling of the face, tongue, or throat.

If an injury is causing breathing difficulty, they might be bleeding or have a
visible wound.

## First Aid

If someone is having breathing difficulty, call 911 or your local emergency
number right away, then:

    * Check the person's airway, breathing, and pulse. If necessary, begin CPR.
    * Loosen any tight clothing.
    * Help the person use any prescribed medicine (such as an asthma inhaler or home oxygen).
    * Continue to monitor the person's breathing and pulse until medical help arrives. DO NOT assume that the person's condition is improving if you can no longer hear abnormal breath sounds, such as wheezing.
    * If there are open wounds in the neck or chest, they must be closed immediately, especially if air bubbles appear in the wound. Bandage such wounds at once.
    * A "sucking" chest wound allows air to enter the person's chest cavity with each breath. This can cause a collapsed lung. Bandage the wound with plastic wrap, a plastic bag, or gauze pads covered with petroleum jelly, sealing it on three sides, leaving one side unsealed. This creates a valve to prevent air from entering the chest through the wound, while allowing trapped air to escape from the chest through the unsealed side.

## DO NOT

DO NOT:

    * Give the person food or drink.
    * Move the person if there has been a head, neck, chest or airway injury, unless it is absolutely necessary. Protect and stabilize the neck if the person must be moved.
    * Place a pillow under the person's head. This can close the airway.
    * Wait to see if the person's condition improves before getting medical help. Get help immediately.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call 911 or your local emergency number if you or someone else has any of the
symptoms of difficult breathing, in the _Symptoms_ section above.

Also call your doctor or health care provider right away if you:

    * Have a cold or other respiratory infection and are having difficulty breathing
    * Have a cough that does not go away after 2 or 3 weeks
    * Are coughing up blood
    * Are losing weight without meaning to or having night sweats
    * Cannot get to sleep or wake up at night because of breathing difficulty
    * Notice it is hard to breathe when doing things that you normally do without breathing difficulty, for example, climbing stairs 

Also call your provider if your child has a cough and is making a barking
sound or wheezing.

## Prevention

Some things you can do to help prevent breathing problems:

    * If you have a history of severe allergic reactions, carry an epinephrine pen and wear a medical alert tag. Your provider will teach you how to use the epinephrine pen.
    * If you have asthma or allergies, eliminate household allergy triggers like dust mites and mold.
    * DO NOT smoke, and keep away from secondhand smoke. DO NOT allow smoking in your home.
    * If you have asthma, see the article on asthma to learn ways to manage it.
    * Make sure your child gets the whooping cough (pertussis) vaccine.
    * Make sure your tetanus booster is up to date.
    * When traveling by airplane, get up and walk around every few hours to avoid forming blood clots in your legs. Once formed, clots can break off and lodge in your lungs. While seated, do ankle circles and raise and lower your heels, toes, and knees to increase blood flow in your legs. If traveling by car, stop and get out and walk around regularly.
    * If you are overweight, lose weight. You are more likely to feel winded if you are overweight. You are also at greater risk for heart disease and heart attack.

Wear a medical alert tag if you have a pre-existing breathing condition, such
as asthma.

## Alternative Names

Difficulty breathing - first aid; Dyspnea - first aid; Shortness of breath -
first aid

## Images

    * ![Collapsed lung, pneumothorax](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19589t.jpg)Collapsed lung, pneumothorax
    * ![Epiglottis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19595t.jpg)Epiglottis
    * ![Breathing](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9026t.jpg)Breathing

## References

Rose E. Pediatric respiratory emergencies: upper airway obstruction and
infections. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's
Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 167.

Schwartzstein RM, Adams L. Dyspnea. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et
al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 29.

Thomas SH, Goodloe JM. Foreign bodies. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-
Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 53.

## Review Date 1/12/2019

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Breathing_thumb.jpg)Breathing Problems
_Read more_

![CPR](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CPR_thumb.jpg)CPR _Read more_

![A photograph of a man administering first aid to a
woman](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TI_FirstAid_thumb.jpg)First Aid _Read
more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

