Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003055.htm    
                                Description: Nasal flaring occurs when the nostrils widen while breathing. It is often a sign of trouble breathing.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Nasal flaring

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003055.htm

# Nasal flaring

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Nasal flaring occurs when the nostrils widen while breathing. It is often a
sign of trouble breathing.

## Considerations

Nasal flaring is seen mostly in infants and younger children.

Any condition that causes difficulty breathing can cause nasal flaring. Many
causes of nasal flaring are not serious, but some can be life threatening.

In young infants, nasal flaring can be a sign of respiratory distress. This is
a serious lung condition that prevents enough oxygen from getting to the lungs
and into the blood.

## Causes

Nasal flaring may be caused by any of the following:

    * Asthma flare-up
    * Blocked airway (any cause)
    * Swelling and mucus buildup in the smallest air passages in the lungs (bronchiolitis)
    * Problem breathing and a barking cough (croup)
    * Swollen or inflamed tissue in the area that covers the windpipe (epiglottitis)
    * Lung problems, such as infection or long-term damage
    * Breathing disorder in newborns (transient tachypnea of the newborn)

## Home Care

Seek emergency help right away if you or your child has signs of a breathing
difficulty.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if:

    * There is any persistent, unexplained nasal flaring, especially in a young child.
    * Bluish color develops in the lips, nail beds, or skin. This is a sign that breathing difficulty is severe. It may mean that an emergency condition is developing.
    * You think that your child is having trouble breathing. 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will perform a physical exam and ask about the symptoms and
medical history. Questions may include:

    * When did the symptoms start?
    * Are they getting better or worse?
    * Is the breathing noisy, or are there wheezing sounds?
    * What other symptoms are there, such as sweating or feeling tired?
    * Do the muscles of the stomach, shoulders, or rib cage pull inward during breathing? 

The provider will listen carefully to the breath sounds. This is called
auscultation.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Arterial blood gas analysis
    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * ECG to check the heart
    * Pulse oximetry to measure blood oxygen level
    * X-rays of the chest

Oxygen may be given if there is a breathing problem.

## Alternative Names

Flaring of the alae nasi (nostrils); Nostrils - flaring

## Images

    * ![Nasal flaring](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17279t.jpg)Nasal flaring
    * ![Sense of smell](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8689t.jpg)Sense of smell

## References

Roosevelt GE. Acute inflammatory upper airway obstruction (croup,
epiglottitis, laryngitis, and bacterial tracheitis). In: Kliegman RM, Stanton
BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 385.

Sarnaik AP, Clark JA, Sarnaik AA. Respiratory distress and failure. In:
Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 71.

## Review Date 5/20/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Breathing_thumb.jpg)Breathing Problems
_Read more_

![Nose Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NoseInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Nose
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

