Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007198.htm    
                                Description: A normal breathing rate for an adult at rest is 8 to 16 breaths per minute. For an infant, a normal rate is up to 44 breaths per minute.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Rapid shallow breathing

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007198.htm

# Rapid shallow breathing

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A normal breathing rate for an adult at rest is 8 to 16 breaths per minute.
For an infant, a normal rate is up to 44 breaths per minute.

Tachypnea is the term that your health care provider uses to describe your
breathing if it is too fast, especially if you have fast, shallow breathing
from a lung disease or other medical cause.

The term hyperventilation is usually used if you are taking rapid, deep
breaths. This can be due to lung disease or because of anxiety or panic. The
terms are sometimes used interchangeably.

## Causes

Shallow, rapid breathing has many possible medical causes, including:

    * Asthma
    * Blood clot in an artery in the lung
    * Choking
    * Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and other chronic lung diseases
    * Heart failure
    * Infection in the smallest air passages of the lungs in children (bronchiolitis)
    * Pneumonia or other lung infection
    * Transient tachypnea of the newborn
    * Anxiety and panic
    * Other serious lung disease 

## Home Care

Rapid, shallow breathing should not be treated at home. It is generally
considered a medical emergency (unless anxiety is the only cause).

If you have asthma or COPD, use your inhaler medicines as prescribed by your
provider. You may still need to be checked by a provider right away if you
have rapid shallow breathing. Your provider will explain when it is important
to go to the emergency room.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call 911 or go to the emergency room if you are breathing rapidly and you
have:

    * Bluish or grayish color to the skin, nails, gums, lips, or the area around the eyes (cyanosis)
    * Chest pain
    * Chest that is pulling in with each breath
    * Fever
    * Labored or difficult breathing
    * Never had rapid breathing before
    * Symptoms that are getting more severe 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will do a thorough exam of your heart, lungs, abdomen, and head
and neck.

Tests that may be ordered include:

    * Arterial blood gas and pulse oximetry to check your oxygen level
    * Chest x-ray
    * Chest CT scan
    * Complete blood count (CBC) and blood chemistries
    * Electrocardiogram (ECG) 
    * Ventilation/perfusion scan of your lungs
    * Comprehensive metabolic panel to check the body's chemical balance and metabolism

Treatment will depend on the underlying cause of the rapid breathing.
Treatment may include oxygen if your oxygen level is too low. If you are
having an asthma or a COPD attack, you'll receive treatment to stop the
attack.

## Alternative Names

Tachypnea; Breathing - rapid and shallow; Fast shallow breathing; Respiratory
rate - rapid and shallow

## Images

    * ![Diaphragm](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19072t.jpg)Diaphragm
    * ![Diaphragm and lungs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19380t.jpg)Diaphragm and lungs
    * ![Respiratory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9248t.jpg)Respiratory system

## References

Kraft M. Approach to the patient with respiratory disease. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 83.

McGee S. Respiratory rate and abnormal breathing patterns. In: McGee S, ed.
_Evidence-Based Physical Diagnosis_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2018:chap 19.

## Review Date 5/16/2019

Updated by: Denis Hadjiliadis, MD, MHS, Paul F. Harron, Jr. Associate
Professor of Medicine, Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care, Perelman School
of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Breathing_thumb.jpg)Breathing Problems
_Read more_

![Lung Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LungDiseases_thumb.jpg)Lung
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

