Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000755.htm    
                                Description: A home apnea monitor is a machine used to monitor a baby    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Home apnea monitor use - infants

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000755.htm

# Home apnea monitor use - infants

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A home apnea monitor is a machine used to monitor a baby's heart rate and
breathing after coming home from the hospital. Apnea is breathing that slows
down or stops from any cause. An alarm on the monitor goes off when your
baby's heart rate or breathing slows or stops.

The monitor is small and portable.

## Why is an Apnea Monitor Used at Home?

A monitor may be needed when:

    * Your baby has ongoing apnea
    * Your baby has severe reflux
    * Your baby needs to be on oxygen or a breathing machine 

The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends that home monitors should not be
used to reduce the risk of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS). Babies should
be put on their backs or sides to sleep to reduce the chance of SIDS.

## How Does My Baby get Started on an Apnea Monitor?

A home health care company comes to your home to teach you how to use the
monitor. They provide support to you as long as you are using the monitor.
Call them if you are having trouble with the monitor.

To use the monitor:

    * Put the stick-on patches (called electrodes) or the belt on your baby's chest or stomach.
    * Attach the wires from the electrodes to the monitor.
    * Turn on the monitor. 

## How Long Will My Baby Wear an Apnea Monitor?

How long your baby stays on the monitor depends on how often real alarms go
off. Real alarms mean your baby does not have a steady heart rate or is having
trouble breathing.

The alarm can go off when your baby moves around. But the baby's heart rate
and breathing may actually be fine. Do not worry about alarms going off
because your baby is moving.

Babies usually wear a home apnea monitor for 2 to 3 months. Discuss with your
baby's health care provider how long your baby needs to stay on the monitor.

## What are the Risks of an Apnea Monitor?

Your baby's skin could get irritated from the stick-on electrodes. This is
usually not a major problem.

If you lose electrical power or have problems with your electricity, the apnea
monitor may not work unless it has a backup battery. Ask your home care
company if your monitor has a battery backup system. If so, learn how to keep
the battery charged.

## Images

    * ![Apnea monitor](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/21727t.jpg)Apnea monitor

## References

American Academy of Pediatrics website. The truth about home apnea monitors
for SIDs: when babies need them - and when they don't.
www.healthychildren.org/English/ages-stages/baby/sleep/Pages/Home-Apnea-
Monitors-for-SIDs.aspx. Updated August 22, 2017. Accessed July 23 2019.

Hauck FR, Carlin RF, Moon RY, Hunt CE. Sudden infant death syndrome. In:
Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson
Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 402.

## Review Date 7/3/2019

Updated by: Liora C. Adler, MD, Pediatric Emergency Medicine, Joe DiMaggio
Childrenâs Hospital, Hollywood, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Breathing Problems
    * Uncommon Infant and Newborn Problems

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

