Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003322.htm    
                                Description: Intercostal retractions occur when the muscles between the ribs pull inward. The movement is most often a sign that the person has a breathing problem.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Intercostal retractions

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003322.htm

# Intercostal retractions

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Intercostal retractions occur when the muscles between the ribs pull inward.
The movement is most often a sign that the person has a breathing problem.

Intercostal retractions are a medical emergency.

## Considerations

The wall of your chest is flexible. This helps you breatheÂ normally. Stiff
tissue called cartilage attaches your ribs to the breast bone (sternum).

The intercostal muscles are the muscles between the ribs. During breathing,
these muscles normally tighten and pull the rib cage up. Your chest expands
and the lungs fill with air.

Intercostal retractions are due to reduced air pressure inside your chest.
This can happen if the upper airway (trachea) or small airways of the lungs
(bronchioles) become partially blocked. As a result, the intercostal muscles
are sucked inward, between the ribs, when you breathe. This is a sign of a
blocked airway. Any health problem that causes a blockage in the airwayÂ will
cause intercostal retractions.

## Causes

Intercostal retractions may be caused by:

    * A severe, whole-body allergic reaction called anaphylaxis
    * Asthma
    * Swelling and mucus buildup in the smallest air passages in the lungs (bronchiolitis)
    * Problem breathing and a barking cough (croup)
    * Inflammation of the tissue (epiglottis) that covers the windpipe
    * Foreign body in the windpipe
    * Pneumonia
    * A lung problem in newborns called respiratory distress syndrome
    * Collection of pus in the tissues in the back of the throat (retropharyngeal abscess)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Seek medical help right away if intercostal retractions occur. This can be a
sign of a blocked airway, which can quickly become life threatening.

Also seek medical care if the skin, lips, or nailbeds turn blue, or if the
person becomes confused, drowsy, or is hard to wake up.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

In an emergency, the health care team will first take steps to help you
breathe. You may receive oxygen, medicines to reduce swelling, and other
treatments.

When you can breathe better, the health care provider will examine you and ask
about your medical history and symptoms, such as:

    * When did the problem start? 
    * Is it getting better, worse, or staying the same? 
    * Does it occur all the time? 
    * Did you notice anything significant that might have caused an airway obstruction? 
    * What other symptoms are there, such asÂ blue skin color, wheezing, high-pitched sound when breathing, coughing orÂ sore throat? 
    * Has anything been breathedÂ into the airway? 

Tests that may be done include:

    * Arterial blood gases
    * Chest x-ray
    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * Pulse oximetry to measure blood oxygen level

## Alternative Names

Retractions of the chest muscles

## References

Brown CA, Walls RM. Airway. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds.
_Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 1.

Roosevelt GE. Acute inflammatory upper airway obstruction (croup,
epiglottitis, laryngitis, and bacterial tracheitis). In: Kliegman RM, Stanton
BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 385.

## Review Date 5/20/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Breathing_thumb.jpg)Breathing Problems
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

