Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000471.htm    
                                Description: Someone who is very ill may have trouble breathing or feel as if they are not getting enough air. This condition is called shortness of breath. The medical term for this is dyspnea.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Palliative care - shortness of breath

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000471.htm

# Palliative care - shortness of breath

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Someone who is very ill may have trouble breathing or feel as if they are not
getting enough air. This condition is called shortness of breath. The medical
term for this is dyspnea.

## Palliative Care

Palliative care is a holistic approach to care that focuses on treating pain
and symptoms and improving quality of life in people with serious illnesses.

## When You Have Shortness of Breath

Shortness of breath may just be a problem when walking up stairs. Or, it may
be so severe that the person has trouble talking or eating.

Shortness of breath has many possible causes, including:

    * Anxiety and fear
    * Panic attacks
    * Lung infections, like pneumonia or bronchitis
    * Lung illness, like COPD
    * Problems with the heart, kidneys, or liver
    * Anemia
    * Constipation 

With serious illnesses or at the end of life, it is common to feel short of
breath. You may or may not experience it. Talk to your health care team so you
know what to expect.

## What You Might Feel When You are Short of Breath

With shortness of breath you might feel:

    * Uncomfortable
    * Like you are not getting enough air
    * Trouble breathing
    * Tired
    * Like you are breathing faster
    * Fear, anxiety, anger, sadness, helplessnessÂ 

You might notice your skin has a bluish tinge on your fingers, toes, nose,
ears, or face.

## How to Help Yourself

If you feel shortness of breath, even if it is mild, tell someone on your care
team. Finding the cause will help the team decide the treatment. The nurse may
check how much oxygen is in your blood by connecting your fingertip to a
machine called a pulse oximeter. A chest x-ray or an ECG (electrocardiogram)
may help your care team find a possible heart or lung problem.

To help with shortness of breath, try:

    * Sitting up
    * Sitting or sleeping in a reclining chair
    * Raising the head of the bed or using pillows to sit up
    * Leaning forward 

Find ways to relax.

    * Listen to calming music.
    * Get a massage.
    * Put a cool cloth on your neck or head.
    * Take slow breaths in through your nose and out through your mouth. It may help to pucker your lips like you were going to whistle. This is called pursed lip breathing.
    * Get reassurance from a calm friend, family member, or hospice team member.
    * Get a breeze from an open window or a fan. 

To breathe easier, understand how to use:

    * Oxygen
    * Medicines to help with breathing 

## When to Call the Doctor

Any time you are unable to control shortness of breath:

    * Call your doctor, nurse, or another member of your health care team for advice.
    * Call 911 to get emergency help. 

Discuss with your health care provider whether you needÂ to go to the hospital
when shortness of breath becomes severe.

Learn more about:

    * Advance care directives
    * Health care agents

## Alternative Names

Dyspnea - end-of-life; Hospice care - shortness of breath

## References

Leigh AE, Tucker RO. What can be done for patients with crisis dyspnea? In:
Goldstein NE, Morrison RS, eds. _Evidence-Based Practice of Palliative
Medicine_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:chap 69.

Rakel RE, Trinh TH. Care of the dying patient. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP, eds.
_Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 5.

## Review Date 2/18/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Breathing Problems
    * Palliative Care

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

