Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001084.htm    
                                Description: Congenital tracheomalacia is weakness and floppiness of the walls of the windpipe (trachea). Congenital means it is present at birth. Acquired tracheolmalacia is a related topic.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Tracheomalacia - congenital

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001084.htm

# Tracheomalacia - congenital

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Congenital tracheomalacia is weakness and floppiness of the walls of the
windpipe (trachea). Congenital means it is present at birth. Acquired
tracheolmalacia is a related topic.

## Causes

Tracheomalacia in a newborn occurs when the cartilage in the windpipe has not
developed properly. Instead of being rigid, the walls of the trachea are
floppy. Because the windpipe is the main airway, breathing problems begin soon
after birth.

Congenital tracheomalacia is very uncommon.

## Symptoms

Symptoms can range from mild to severe. Symptoms may include:

    * Breathing noises that may change with position and improve during sleep
    * Breathing problems that get worse with coughing, crying, feeding, or upper respiratory infections (such as cold)
    * High-pitched breathing
    * Rattling or noisy breaths 

## Exams and Tests

A physical exam confirms the symptoms. A chest x-ray will be done to rule out
other problems. The x-ray may show narrowing of the trachea when breathing in.

A procedure called laryngoscopy provides the most reliable diagnosis. In this
procedure, an otolaryngologist (ear, nose, and throat doctor, or ENT) will
look at the structure of the airway and determine how severe the problem is.

Other tests may include:

    * Airway fluoroscopy -- a kind of x-ray that shows the images on a screen
    * Barium swallow
    * Bronchoscopy -- camera down the throat to see the airways and lungs
    * CT scan
    * Lung function tests
    * Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) 

## Treatment

Most infants respond well to humidified air, careful feedings, and antibiotics
for infections. Babies with tracheomalacia must be closely monitored when they
have respiratory infections.

Often, the symptoms of tracheomalacia improve as the infant grows.

Rarely, surgery is needed.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Congenital tracheomalacia most often goes away on its own by the age of 18 to
24 months. As the cartilage gets stronger and the trachea grows, the noisy and
difficult breathing slowly improves. People with tracheomalacia must be
monitored closely when they have respiratory infections.

## Possible Complications

Babies born with tracheomalacia may have other congenital abnormalities, such
as heart defects, developmental delay, or gastroesophageal reflux.

Aspiration pneumonia can occur from inhaling food into the lungs or windpipe.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if your child has breathing difficulties or
noisy breathing. Tracheomalacia can become an urgent or emergency condition.

## Alternative Names

Type 1 tracheomalacia

## References

Finder, JD. Bronchomalacia and tracheomalacia. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW,
Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_.
21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 416.

Nelson M, Green G, Ohye RG. Pediatric tracheal anomalies. In: Flint PW,
Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head & Neck
Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 206.

Wert SE. Normal and abnormal structural development of the lung. In: Polin RA,
Abman SH, Rowitch DH, Benitz WE, Fox WW, eds. _Fetal and Neonatal Physiology_.
5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 61.

## Review Date 4/4/2019

Updated by: Liora C. Adler, MD, Pediatric Emergency Medicine, Joe DiMaggio
Childrenâs Hospital, Hollywood, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Breathing_thumb.jpg)Breathing Problems
_Read more_

![Tracheal
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TrachealDisorders_thumb.jpg)Tracheal
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

