Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000172.htm    
                                Description: You were in the hospital to have gastric surgery for weight loss. This article tells you what you need to know to take care of yourself in the days and weeks after the operation.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Gastric bypass surgery - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000172.htm

# Gastric bypass surgery - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You were in the hospital to have gastric surgery for weight loss. This article
tells you what you need to know to take care of yourself in the days and weeks
after the operation.

## When You're in the Hospital

You had gastric bypass surgery to help you lose weight. Your surgeon used
staples to divide your stomach into a small upper section, called a pouch, and
a larger bottom section. Then your surgeon sewed a section of your small
intestine to a small opening in this small stomach pouch. The food you eat
will now go into your small stomach pouch, then into your small intestine.

You probably spent 1 to 3 days in the hospital. When you go home you will be
eating liquids or purÃ©ed foods. You should be able to move around without too
much problem.

## What to Expect at Home

You will lose weight quickly over the first 3 to 6 months. During this time,
you may:

    * Have body aches
    * Feel tired and cold
    * Have dry skin
    * Have mood changes
    * Have hair loss or hair thinning 

These problems should go away as your body gets used to your weight loss and
your weight becomes stable. Because of this quick weight loss, you will need
to be careful that you get all of the nutrition and vitamins you need as you
recover.

Weight loss slows down after 12 to 18 months.

## Diet

You will remain on liquid or purÃ©ed food for 2 or 3 weeks after surgery. You
will slowly add soft foods and then regular food, as your health care provider
told you to do. Remember to eat small portions and chew each bite very slowly
and completely.

DO NOT eat and drink at the same time. Drink fluids at least 30 minutes after
you eat food. Drink slowly. Sip when you are drinking. DO NOT gulp. Your
provider may tell you not to use a straw, as it may bring air into your
stomach.

Your provider will teach you about foods that you should eat and foods you
should stay away from.

## Activity

Being active soon after surgery will help you recover more quickly. During the
first week:

    * Start walking after surgery. Move around the house and shower, and use the stairs at home.
    * If it hurts when you do something, stop doing that activity. 

If you have laparoscopic surgery, you should be able to do most of your
regular activities in 2 to 4 weeks. It may take up to 12 weeks if you have
open surgery.

Before this time, DO NOT:

    * Lift anything heavier than 10 to 15 pounds (5 to 7 kg) until you see your provider
    * Do any activity that involves pushing or pulling
    * Push yourself too hard. Increase how much you exercise slowly
    * Drive or use machinery if you are taking narcotic pain medicine. These medicines will make you drowsy. Driving and using machinery is not safe when you are taking them. 

DO:

    * Take short walks and go up and down stairs.
    * Try getting up and moving around if you are having some pain in your belly. It may help. 

Make sure your home is set up for your recovery, to prevent falls and make
sure you are safe in the bathroom.

If your provider says it is OK, you may start an exercise program 2 to 4 weeks
after surgery.

You DO NOT need to join a gym to exercise. If you have not exercised or been
active in a long time, be sure to start off slowly to prevent injuries. Taking
a 5- to 10-minute walk every day is a good start. Increase this amount until
you are walking 15 minutes twice a day.

## Wound Care

You may change the dressing every day if your provider tells you to do so. Be
sure to change your dressing if it gets dirty or wet.

You may have bruising around your wounds. This is normal. It will go away on
its own. The skin around your incisions may be a little red. This is normal,
too.

DO NOT wear tight clothing that rubs against your incisions while they heal.

Keep your dressing (bandage) on your wound clean and dry. If there are sutures
(stitches) or staples, they will be removed about 7 to 10 days after surgery.
Some stitches can dissolve on their own. Your provider will tell you if you
have them.

Unless you are told otherwise, DO NOT shower until after your follow-up
appointment with your provider. When you can shower, let water run over your
incision, but DO NOT scrub or let the water beat down on it.

DO NOT soak in a bathtub, swimming pool, or hot tub until your provider says
it is OK.

Press a pillow over your incisions when you need to cough or sneeze.

## Drugs

You may need to take some medicines when you go home.

    * You may need to give yourself shots underneath the skin of a blood-thinning drug for 2 or more weeks. Your provider will show you how.
    * You may need to take medicine to prevent gallstones.
    * You will need to take certain vitamins that your body may not absorb well from your food. Two of these are vitamin B-12 and vitamin D.
    * You may need to take calcium and iron supplements as well. 

Aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), and some other drugs may harm the lining
of your stomach or even cause ulcers. Talk with your provider before you take
these drugs.

## Follow-up

To help you recover from surgery and manage all the changes in your lifestyle,
you will see your surgeon and many other providers.

By the time you leave the hospital, you will likely have a follow-up
appointment scheduled with your surgeon within a few weeks. You will see your
surgeon several more times in the first year after your surgery.

You may also have appointments with:

    * A nutritionist or dietitian, who will teach you how to eat correctly with your smaller stomach. You will also learn about what foods and drinks you should have after surgery.
    * A psychologist, who can help you follow your eating and exercise guidelines and deal with the feelings or concerns you may have after surgery.
    * You will need blood tests for the rest of your life to make sure that your body is getting enough important vitamins and minerals from food after your surgery. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

    * You have more redness, pain, warmth, swelling, or bleeding around your incision.
    * The wound is larger or deeper or looks dark or dried out.
    * The drainage from your incision does not decrease in 3 to 5 days or increases.
    * The drainage becomes thick, tan or yellow and has a bad smell (pus).
    * Your temperature is above 100Â°F (37.7Â°C) for more than 4 hours.
    * You have pain that your pain medicine is not helping.
    * You have trouble breathing.
    * You have a cough that does not go away.
    * You cannot drink or eat.
    * Your skin or the white part of your eyes turns yellow.
    * Your stools are loose, or you have diarrhea.
    * You are vomiting after eating. 

## Alternative Names

Bariatric surgery - gastric bypass - discharge; Roux-en-Y gastric bypass -
discharge; Gastric bypass - Roux-en-Y - discharge; Obesity gastric bypass
discharge; Weight loss - gastric bypass discharge

## References

Jensen MD, Ryan DH, Apovian CM, et al. 2013 AHA/ACC/TOS guideline for the
management of overweight and obesity in adults: a report of the American
College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice
Guidelines and The Obesity Society. _J Am Coll Cardiol_. 2014;63(25 Pt
B):2985-3023. PMID: 24239920 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24239920.

Mechanick JI, Youdim A, Jones DB, et al. Clinical practice guidelines for the
perioperative nutritional, metabolic, and nonsurgical support of the bariatric
surgery patient--2013 update: cosponsored by American Association of Clinical
Endocrinologists, The Obesity Society, and American Society for Metabolic &
Bariatric Surgery. _Endocr Pract_. 2013;19(2):337-372. PMID: 23529351
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23529351.

Richards WO. Morbid obesity. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM,
Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 47.

Thompson CC, Morton JM. Surgical and endoscopic treatment of obesity. In:
Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's
Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease: Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_.
10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 8.

## Read More

    * Body mass index
    * Coronary heart disease
    * Gastric bypass surgery
    * Laparoscopic gastric banding
    * Obesity
    * Obstructive sleep apnea - adults
    * Type 2 diabetes

## Patient Instructions

    * After weight-loss surgery - what to ask your doctor
    * Before weight-loss surgery - what to ask your doctor
    * Getting out of bed after surgery
    * Wet-to-dry dressing changes
    * Your diet after gastric bypass surgery

## Review Date 7/11/2018

Updated by: Ann Rogers, MD, Associate Professor of Surgery; Director, Penn
State Surgical Weight Loss Program, Penn State Milton S. Hershey Medical
Center, Hershey, PA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Weight Loss Surgery

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

