Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007388.htm    
                                Description: Laparoscopic gastric banding is surgery to help with weight loss. The surgeon places a band around the upper part of your stomach to create a small pouch to hold food. The band limits the amount of food    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Laparoscopic gastric banding

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007388.htm

# Laparoscopic gastric banding

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Laparoscopic gastric banding is surgery to help with weight loss. The surgeon
places a band around the upper part of your stomach to create a small pouch to
hold food. The band limits the amount of food you can eat by making you feel
full after eating small amounts of food.

After surgery, your doctor can adjust the band to make food pass more slowly
or quickly through your stomach.

Gastric bypass surgery is a related topic.

## Description

You will receive general anesthesia before this surgery. You will be asleep
and unable to feel pain.

The surgery is done using a tiny camera that is placed in your belly. This
type of surgery is called laparoscopy. The camera is called a laparoscope. It
allows your surgeon to see inside your belly. In this surgery:

    * Your surgeon will make 1 to 5 small surgical cuts in your abdomen. Through these small cuts, the surgeon will place a camera and the instruments needed to perform the surgery.
    * Your surgeon will place a band around the upper part of your stomach to separate it from the lower part. This creates a small pouch that has a narrow opening that goes into the larger, lower part of your stomach.
    * The surgery does not involve any cutting or stapling inside your belly.
    * Your surgery may take only 30 to 60 minutes if your surgeon has done a lot of these procedures. 

When you eat after having this surgery, the small pouch will fill up quickly.
You will feel full after eating just a small amount of food. The food in the
small upper pouch will slowly empty into the main part of your stomach.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Weight-loss surgery may be an option if you are severely obese and have not
been able to lose weight through diet and exercise.

Laparoscopic gastric banding is not a "quick fix" for obesity. It will greatly
change your lifestyle. You must diet and exercise after this surgery. If you
do not, you may have complications or poor weight loss.

People who have this surgery should be mentally stable and not be dependent on
alcohol or illegal drugs.

Doctors often use the following body mass index (BMI) measures to identify
people who may be most likely to benefit from weight-loss surgery. A normal
BMI is between 18.5 and 25. This procedure may be recommended for you if you
have:

    * A BMI of 40 or more. This most often means that men are 100 pounds (45 kg) overweight and women are 80 pounds (36 kg) over their ideal weight.
    * A BMI of 35 or more and a serious medical condition that might improve with weight loss. Some of these conditions are sleep apnea, type 2 diabetes, high blood pressure, and heart disease. 

## Risks

Risks for anesthesia and any surgery includes:

    * Allergic reactions to medicines
    * Breathing problems
    * Blood clots in the legs that may travel to your lungs
    * Blood loss
    * Infection, including in the surgery site, lungs (pneumonia), or bladder or kidney
    * Heart attack or stroke during or after surgery 

Risks for gastric banding are:

    * Gastric band erodes through the stomach (if this happens, it must be removed).
    * Stomach may slip up through the band. (If this happens, you may need urgent surgery.)
    * Gastritis (inflamed stomach lining), heartburn, or stomach ulcers.
    * Infection in the port, which may need antibiotics or surgery.
    * Injury to your stomach, intestines, or other organs during surgery.
    * Poor nutrition.
    * Scarring inside your belly, which could lead to a blockage in your bowel.
    * Your surgeon may not be able to reach the access port to tighten or loosen the band. You would need minor surgery to fix this problem.
    * The access port may flip upside down, making it impossible to access. You would need minor surgery to fix this problem.
    * The tubing near the access port can be accidentally punctured during a needle access. If this happens, the band cannot be tightened. You would need minor surgery to fix this problem.
    * Vomiting from eating more than your stomach pouch can hold. 

## Before the Procedure

Your surgeon will ask you to have tests and visits with your other health care
providers before you have this surgery. Some of these are:

    * Blood tests and other tests to make sure you are healthy enough to have surgery.
    * Classes to help you learn what happens during the surgery, what you should expect afterward, and what risks or problems may occur.
    * Complete physical exam.
    * Nutritional counseling.
    * Visit with a mental health provider to make sure you are emotionally ready for major surgery. You must be able to make major changes in your lifestyle after surgery.
    * Visits with your provider to make sure other medical problems you may have, such as diabetes, high blood pressure, and heart or lung problems, are under control.Â 

If you are a smoker, you should stop smoking several weeks before surgery and
not start smoking again after surgery. Smoking slows recovery and increases
the risk of problems. Tell your provider if you need help quitting.

Always tell your provider:

    * If you are or might be pregnant
    * What medicines, vitamins, herbs, and other supplements you are taking, even ones you bought without a prescription 

During the week before your surgery:

    * You may be asked to stop taking aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), vitamin E, warfarin (Coumadin), and any other medicines that make it hard for your blood to clot.
    * Ask which medicines to take on the day of your surgery. 

On the day of your surgery:

    * DO NOT eat or drink anything for 6 hours before your surgery.
    * Take the medicines your provider told you to take with a small sip of water. 

Your provider will tell you when to arrive at the hospital.

## After the Procedure

You will probably go home the day of surgery. Many people are able to begin
their normal activities 1 or 2 days after going home. Most people take 1 week
off from work.

You will stay on liquids or mashed-up foods for 2 or 3 weeks after surgery.
You will slowly add soft foods, then regular foods, to your diet. By 6 weeks
after surgery, you will probably be able to eat regular foods.

The band is made of a special rubber (silastic rubber). The inside of the band
has an inflatable balloon. This allows the band to be adjusted. You and your
doctor can decide to loosen or tighten it in the future so you can eat more or
less food.

The band is connected to an access port that is under the skin on your belly.
The band can be tightened by placing a needle into the port and filling the
balloon (band) with water.

Your surgeon can make the band tighter or looser any time after you have this
surgery. It may be tightened or loosened if you are:

    * Having problems eating
    * Not losing enough weight
    * Vomiting after you eat 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The final weight loss with gastric banding is not as large as with other
weight loss surgery. The average weight loss is about one-third to one-half of
the extra weight you are carrying. This may be enough for many people. Talk
with your provider about which procedure is best for you.

In most cases, the weight will come off more slowly than with other weight
loss surgery. You should keep losing weight for up to 3 years.

Losing enough weight after surgery can improve many medical conditions you
might also have, such as:

    * Asthma
    * Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD)
    * High blood pressure
    * High cholesterol
    * Sleep apnea
    * Type 2 diabetes 

Weighing less should also make it much easier for you to move around and do
your everyday activities.

This surgery alone is not a solution to losing weight. It can train you to eat
less, but you still have to do much of the work. To lose weight and avoid
complications from the procedure, you will need to follow the exercise and
eating guidelines that your provider and dietitian gave you.

## Alternative Names

Lap-Band; LAGB; Laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding; Bariatric surgery -
laparoscopic gastric banding; Obesity - gastric banding; Weight loss - gastric
banding

## Patient Instructions

    * After weight-loss surgery - what to ask your doctor
    * Before weight-loss surgery - what to ask your doctor
    * Gastric bypass surgery - discharge 
    * Laparoscopic gastric banding - discharge 
    * Your diet after gastric bypass surgery

## References

Jensen MD, Ryan DH, Apovian CM, et al. 2013 AHA/ACC/TOS guideline for the
management of overweight and obesity in adults: a report of the American
College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice
Guidelines and The Obesity Society. _J Am Coll Cardiol_. 2014;63(25 Pt
B):2985-3023. PMID: 24239920 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24239920.

Richards WO. Morbid obesity. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM,
Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2017:chap 47.

Thompson CC, Morton JM. Surgical and endoscopic treatment of obesity. In:
Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's
Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 8.

## Review Date 7/11/2018

Updated by: Ann Rogers, MD, Associate Professor of Surgery; Director, Penn
State Surgical Weight Loss Program, Penn State Milton S. Hershey Medical
Center, Hershey, PA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Weight Loss
Surgery](https://medlineplus.gov/images/WeightLossSurgery_thumb.jpg)Weight
Loss Surgery _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

