Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000180.htm    
                                Description: You had gastric banding surgery to help with weight loss. This article tells you how to take care of yourself after the procedure.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Laparoscopic gastric banding - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000180.htm

# Laparoscopic gastric banding - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You had gastric banding surgery to help with weight loss. This article tells
you how to take care of yourself after the procedure.

## When You're in the Hospital

You had laparoscopic gastric banding surgery to help with weight loss. Your
surgeon placed a band around the upper part of your stomach to separate it
from the lower part. The upper part of your stomach is now a small pouch with
a narrow opening that goes into the larger, lower part of your stomach.

The surgery was done using a camera placed in your belly. The camera is called
a laparoscope. This type of surgery is called laparoscopy.

## What to Expect at Home

You may lose weight quickly over the first 3 to 6 months. During this time,
you may have:

    * Body aches
    * Feel tired and cold
    * Dry skin
    * Mood changes
    * Hair loss or hair thinning 

These problems should go away as your body gets used to your weight loss and
your weight becomes stable. Weight loss may be slower after this.

## Activity

Being active soon after surgery will help you recover more quickly. During the
first week:

    * Take short walks and going up and down stairs.
    * Try getting up and moving around if you are having some pain in your belly. It may help the pain. 

If it hurts when you do something, stop doing that activity.

If you have laparoscopic surgery, you should be able to do most of your
regular activities in 2 to 4 weeks.

## Diet

Laparoscopic gastric banding made your stomach smaller by closing off part of
your stomach with an adjustable band. After surgery you will eat less food,
and you will not be able to eat quickly.

Your health care provider will teach you about foods you can eat and foods you
should avoid. It is very important to follow these diet guidelines.

You will eat only liquid or purÃ©ed food for 2 to 3 weeks after your surgery.
You will slowly add in soft foods, and then regular foods.

## Wound Care

Keep your dressings (bandage) on your wounds clean and dry. If you have
sutures (stitches) or staples, they will be removed about 7 to 10 days after
surgery. Some stitches can dissolve on their own. Your provider will tell if
you have this kind.

Change the dressings (bandages) every day if you were told to do so. Be sure
to change them more often if they get dirty or wet.

You may have bruising around your wound. This is normal. It will go away on
its own. The skin around your incisions may be a little red. This is normal,
too.

DO NOT wear tight clothing that rubs against your incisions while they heal.

Unless you are told otherwise, DO NOT shower until after your follow-up
appointment with your provider. When you can shower, let water run over your
incision, but DO NOT scrub it or let the water beat down on it.

DO NOT soak in a bathtub, swimming pool, or hot tub until your doctor tells
you it is OK.

## Follow-up

By the time you leave the hospital, you will likely have a follow-up
appointment scheduled with your surgeon within a few weeks. You will see your
surgeon several more times in the first year after your surgery.

You may also have appointments with:

    * A nutritionist or dietitian, who will teach you how to eat correctly with your smaller stomach. You will also learn about what foods and drinks you should have after surgery.
    * A psychologist, who can help you follow your eating and exercise guidelines and deal with the feelings or concerns you may have after surgery. 

The band around your stomach is filled with saline (saltwater). It is
connected to a container (access port) that is placed under your skin in your
upper belly. Your surgeon can make the band tighter or looser by increasing or
decreasing the amount of saline in the band. To do this, your surgeon will
insert a needle through your skin into the access port.

Your surgeon can make the band tighter or looser any time after you have this
surgery. It may be tightened or loosened if you are:

    * Not losing enough weight
    * Having problems eating
    * Vomiting after you eat 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

    * Your temperature is above 101Â°F (38.3Â°C).
    * Your incisions are bleeding, red, warm to the touch, or have a thick, yellow, green, or milky drainage.
    * You have pain that your pain medicine is not helping.
    * You have trouble breathing.
    * You have a cough that does not go away.
    * You cannot drink or eat.
    * Your skin or the white part of your eyes turns yellow.
    * Your stools are loose, or you have diarrhea.
    * You are vomiting after eating. 

## Alternative Names

Lap-Band - discharge; LAGB - discharge; Laparoscopic adjustable gastric
banding - discharge; Bariatric surgery - laparoscopic gastric banding -
discharge; Obesity gastric banding discharge; Weight loss - gastric banding
discharge

## Images

    * ![Adjustable gastric banding](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19497t.jpg)Adjustable gastric banding

## References

Gloy VL, Briel M, Bhatt DL, et al. Bariatric surgery versus non-surgical
treatment for obesity: a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomised
controlled trials. _BMJ_. 2013;347:f5934. PMID: 24149519
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24149519.

Mechanick JI, Youdim A, Jones DB, et al. Clinical practice guidelines for the
perioperative nutritional, metabolic, and nonsurgical support of the bariatric
surgery patient--2013 update: cosponsored by American Association of Clinical
Endocrinologists, The Obesity Society, and American Society for Metabolic &
Bariatric Surgery. _Endocr Pract_. 2013;19(2):337-372. PMID: 23529351
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23529351.

Richards WO. Morbid obesity. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM,
Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 47.

Thompson CC, Morton JM. Surgical and endoscopic treatment of obesity. In:
Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's
Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease: Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_.
10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 8.

## Read More

    * Body mass index
    * Coronary heart disease
    * Gastric bypass surgery
    * Laparoscopic gastric banding
    * Obesity
    * Obstructive sleep apnea - adults
    * Type 2 diabetes

## Patient Instructions

    * After weight-loss surgery - what to ask your doctor
    * Before weight-loss surgery - what to ask your doctor
    * Your diet after gastric bypass surgery

## Review Date 7/11/2018

Updated by: Ann Rogers, MD, Associate Professor of Surgery; Director, Penn
State Surgical Weight Loss Program, Penn State Milton S. Hershey Medical
Center, Hershey, PA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Weight Loss Surgery

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

