Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000173.htm    
                                Description: Gastric bypass surgery changes the way your body handles food. This article will tell you how to adapt to a new way of eating after the surgery.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Your diet after gastric bypass surgery

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000173.htm

# Your diet after gastric bypass surgery

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Gastric bypass surgery changes the way your body handles food. This article
will tell you how to adapt to a new way of eating after the surgery.

## What to Expect at Home

You had gastric bypass surgery. This surgery made your stomach smaller by
closing off most of your stomach with staples. It changed the way your body
handles the food you eat. You will eat less food, and your body will not
absorb all the calories from the food you eat.

Your health care provider will teach you about foods you can eat and foods you
should avoid. It is very important to follow these diet guidelines.

## When you go Home From the Hospital

You will eat only liquid or purÃ©ed food for 2 or 3 weeks after the surgery.
You will slowly add in soft foods, then regular food.

    * When you start eating solid foods again, you will feel full very quickly at first. Just a few bites of solid food will fill you up. This is because your new stomach pouch holds only a tablespoonful of food at first, about the size of a walnut.
    * Your pouch will get slightly larger over time. You DO NOT want to stretch it out, so DO NOT eat more than your provider recommends. When your pouch is larger, it will not hold more than about 1 cup (250 milliliter) of chewed food. A normal stomach can hold up to 4 cups (1 liter, L) of chewed food. 

You will lose weight quickly over the first 3 to 6 months. During this time,
you may:

    * Have body aches
    * Feel tired and cold
    * Have dry skin
    * Have mood changes
    * Have hair loss or thinning hair 

These symptoms are normal. They should go away as you take in more protein and
calories as your body gets used to your weight loss.

## A new way of Eating

Remember to eat slowly and chew each bite very slowly and completely. DO NOT
swallow food until it is smooth. The opening between your new stomach pouch
and your intestines is very small. Food that is not chewed well can block this
opening.

    * Take at least 20 to 30 minutes to eat a meal. If you vomit or have pain under your breastbone during or after eating, you may be eating too fast.
    * Eat 6 small meals throughout the day instead of 3 big meals. DO NOT snack between meals.
    * STOP EATING AS SOON AS YOU ARE FULL. 

Some foods you eat may cause some pain or discomfort if you do not chew them
completely. Some of these are pasta, rice, bread, raw vegetables, and meats.
Adding a low-fat sauce, broth, or gravy can make them easier to digest. Other
foods that may cause discomfort are dry foods, such as popcorn and nuts, or
fibrous foods, such as celery and corn.

You will need to drink up to 8 cups (2 L) of water or other calorie-free
liquids every day. Follow these guidelines for drinking:

    * DO NOT drink anything for 30 minutes after you eat food. Also, DO NOT drink anything while you are eating. The liquid will fill you up. This may keep you from eating enough healthy food. It can also lubricate food and make it easy for you to eat more than you should.
    * Take small sips when you are drinking. DO NOT gulp.
    * Ask your provider before using a straw, since it may bring air in your stomach. 

## Follow Your Diet Carefully

You will need to make sure you are getting enough protein, vitamins, and
minerals while you are losing weight quickly. Eating mostly protein, fruits,
vegetables, and whole grains will help your body get the nutrients it needs.

Protein may be the most important of these foods early after surgery. Your
body needs protein to build muscles and other body tissues, and to heal well
after surgery. Low-fat protein choices include:

    * Skinless chicken.
    * Lean beef or pork.
    * Fish.
    * Whole eggs or egg whites.
    * Beans.
    * Dairy products, which includes low-fat or nonfat hard cheeses, cottage cheese, milk, and yogurt. 

After gastric bypass surgery, your body will not absorb some important
vitamins and minerals. You will need to take these vitamins and minerals for
the rest of your life:

    * Multivitamin with iron.
    * Vitamin B12.
    * Calcium (1200 mg per day) and vitamin D. Your body can absorb only about 500 mg of calcium at a time. Divide your calcium into 2 or 3 doses during the day. Calcium must be taken in the "citrate" form. 

You may need to take other supplements also.

You will need to have regular checkups with your provider to keep track of
your weight and to make sure you are eating well. These visits are a good time
to talk with your provider about any problems you are having with your diet,
or about other issues related to your surgery and recovery.

## Calories Still Count

Avoid foods that are high in calories. It is important to get all of the
nutrition you need without eating too many calories.

    * DO NOT eat foods that have a lot of fats, sugar, or carbohydrates.
    * DO NOT drink much alcohol. Alcohol has a lot of calories, but it does not provide nutrition.
    * DO NOT drink fluids that have a lot of calories. Avoid drinks that have sugar, fructose, or corn syrup in them.
    * Avoid carbonated drinks (drinks with bubbles), or let them go flat before drinking. 

Portions and serving sizes still count. Your dietitian or nutritionist can
give you suggested serving sizes of the foods in your diet.

If you gain weight after gastric bypass surgery, ask yourself:

    * Am I eating too many high-calorie foods or drinks?
    * Am I getting enough protein?
    * Am I eating too often?
    * Am I exercising enough? 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

    * You are gaining weight or you stop losing weight.
    * You are vomiting after eating.
    * You have diarrhea most days.
    * You feel tired all the time.
    * You have dizziness or are sweating. 

## Alternative Names

Gastric bypass surgery - your diet; Obesity - diet after bypass; Weight loss -
diet after bypass

## Images

    * ![Roux-en-Y stomach surgery for weight loss](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19268t.jpg)Roux-en-Y stomach surgery for weight loss

## References

Boyett D, Magnuson T, Schweitzer M. Metabolic changes following bariatric
surgery. In: Cameron JL, Cameron AM, eds. _Current Surgical Therapy_. 12th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:802-806.

Heber D, Greenway FL, Kaplan LM, et al. Endocrine and nutritional management
of the post-bariatric surgery patient: an Endocrine Society Clinical Practice
Guideline. _J Clin Endocrinol Metab_. 2010;95(11):4823-4843. PMID: 21051578
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21051578.

Mechanick JI, Youdim A, Jones DB, et al. Clinical practice guidelines for the
perioperative nutritional, metabolic, and nonsurgical support of the bariatric
surgery patient--2013 update: cosponsored by American Association of Clinical
Endocrinologists, The Obesity Society, and American Society for Metabolic &
Bariatric Surgery. _Endocr Pract_. 2013;19(2):337-372. PMID: 23529351
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23529351.

Thompson CC, Morton JM. Surgical and endoscopic treatment of obesity. In:
Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's
Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease: Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_.
10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 8.

## Read More

    * Gastric bypass surgery
    * Laparoscopic gastric banding
    * Obesity

## Patient Instructions

    * After weight-loss surgery - what to ask your doctor
    * Before weight-loss surgery - what to ask your doctor
    * Gastric bypass surgery - discharge 
    * Laparoscopic gastric banding - discharge 

## Review Date 7/11/2018

Updated by: Ann Rogers, MD, Associate Professor of Surgery; Director, Penn
State Surgical Weight Loss Program, Penn State Milton S. Hershey Medical
Center, Hershey, PA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Weight Loss Surgery

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

