Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007435.htm    
                                Description: Vertical sleeve gastrectomy is surgery to help with weight loss. The surgeon removes a large portion of your stomach.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Vertical sleeve gastrectomy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007435.htm

# Vertical sleeve gastrectomy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Vertical sleeve gastrectomy is surgery to help with weight loss. The surgeon
removes a large portion of your stomach.

The new, smaller stomach is about the size of a banana. It limits the amount
of food you can eat by making you feel full after eating small amounts of
food.

## Description

You will receive general anesthesia before this surgery. This is medicine that
keeps you asleep and pain-free.

The surgery is usually done using a tiny camera that is placed in your belly.
This type of surgery is called laparoscopy. The camera is called a
laparoscope. It allows your surgeon to see inside your belly.

In this surgery:

    * Your surgeon makes 2 to 5 small cuts (incisions) in your belly.
    * The scope and instruments needed to perform the surgery are inserted through these cuts.
    * The camera is connected to a video monitor in the operating room. This allows the surgeon to view inside your belly while doing the operation.
    * A harmless gas is pumped into the belly to expand it. This gives the surgeon room to work.
    * Your surgeon removes most of your stomach.
    * The remaining portions of your stomach are joined together using surgical staples. This creates a long vertical tube or banana-shaped stomach.
    * The surgery does not involve cutting or changing the sphincter muscles that allow food to enter or leave the stomach.
    * The scope and other tools are removed. The cuts are stitched closed. 

The surgery takes 60 to 90 minutes.

Weight-loss surgery may increase your risk for gallstones. Your surgeon may
recommend having a cholecystectomy. This is surgery to remove the gallbladder.
It may be done before the weight-loss surgery or at the same time.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Weight-loss surgery may be an option if you are very obese and have not been
able to lose weight through diet and exercise.

Vertical sleeve gastrectomy is not a quick fix for obesity. It will greatly
change your lifestyle. After this surgery, you must eat healthy foods, control
portion sizes of what you eat, and exercise. If you do not follow these
measures, you may have complications from the surgery and poor weight loss.

This procedure may be recommended if you have:

    * A body mass index (BMI) of 40 or more. Someone with a BMI of 40 or more is at least 100 pounds (45 kilograms) over their recommended weight. A normal BMI is between 18.5 and 25.
    * A BMI of 35 or more and a serious medical condition that might improve with weight loss. Some of these conditions are obstructive sleep apnea, type 2 diabetes, and heart disease. 

Vertical sleeve gastrectomy has most often been done on people who are too
heavy to safely have other types of weight-loss surgery. Some people may
eventually need a second weight-loss surgery.

This procedure cannot be reversed once it has been done.

## Risks

Risks for anesthesia and surgery in general are:

    * Allergic reactions to medicines
    * Breathing problems
    * Bleeding, blood clots, infection

Risks for vertical sleeve gastrectomy are:

    * Gastritis (inflamed stomach lining), heartburn, or stomach ulcers
    * Injury to your stomach, intestines, or other organs during surgery
    * Leaking from the line where parts of the stomach have been stapled together
    * Poor nutrition, although much less than with gastric bypass surgery
    * Scarring inside your belly that could lead to a blockage in your bowel in the future
    * Vomiting from eating more than your stomach pouch can hold 

## Before the Procedure

Your surgeon will ask you to have tests and visits with your other health care
providers before you have this surgery. Some of these are:

    * A complete physical exam.
    * Blood tests, ultrasound of your gallbladder, and other tests to make sure you are healthy enough to have surgery.
    * Visits with your doctor to make sure other medical problems you may have, such as diabetes, high blood pressure, and heart or lung problems, are under control.
    * Nutritional counseling.
    * Classes to help you learn what happens during the surgery, what you should expect afterward, and what risks or problems may occur afterward.
    * You may want to visit with a counselor to make sure you are emotionally ready for this surgery. You must be able to make major changes in your lifestyle after surgery.

If you smoke, you should stop several weeks before surgery and not start
smoking again after surgery. Smoking slows recovery and increases the risk for
problems. Ask your provider for help quitting.

Tell your surgeon:

    * If you are or might be pregnant
    * What medicines, vitamins, herbs, and other supplements you are taking, even ones you bought without a prescription 

During the week before your surgery:

    * You may be asked to stop taking blood thinning medicines. These include aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), vitamin E, warfarin (Coumadin, Jantoven), and others.
    * Ask your doctor which drugs you should still take on the day of your surgery.

On the day of your surgery:

    * Follow instructions about when to stop eating and drinking.
    * Take the drugs your doctor told you to take with a small sip of water.
    * Arrive at the hospital on time.

## After the Procedure

You can probably go home 2 days after your surgery. You should be able to
drink clear liquids on the day after surgery, and then go on a pureed diet by
the time you go home.

When you go home, you will probably be given pain pills or liquids and a drug
called a proton pump inhibitor.

When you eat after having this surgery, the small pouch will fill quickly. You
will feel full after eating a very small amount of food.

The surgeon, nurse, or dietitian will recommend a diet for you. Meals should
be small to avoid stretching the remaining stomach.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The final weight loss may not be as large as with gastric bypass. This may be
enough for many people. Talk with your surgeon about which procedure is best
for you.

The weight will usually come off more slowly than with gastric bypass. You
should keep losing weight for up to 2 to 3 years.

Losing enough weight after surgery can improve many medical conditions you
might also have. Conditions that may improve are asthma, type 2 diabetes,
arthritis, high blood pressure, obstructive sleep apnea, high cholesterol, and
gastroesophageal disease (GERD).

Weighing less should also make it much easier for you to move around and do
your everyday activities.

This surgery alone is not a solution to losing weight. It can train you to eat
less, but you still have to do much of the work. To lose weight and avoid
complications from the procedure, you will need to follow the exercise and
eating guidelines that your surgeon and dietitian give you.

## Alternative Names

Gastrectomy - sleeve; Gastrectomy - greater curvature; Gastrectomy - parietal;
Gastric reduction; Vertical gastroplasty

## References

American Society for Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery website. Bariatric
surgery procedures. asmbs.org/patients/bariatric-surgery-procedures#sleeve.
Accessed April 3, 2019.

Richards WO. Morbid obesity. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM,
Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 47.

Thompson CC, Morton JM. Surgical and endoscopic treatment of obesity. In:
Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's
Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease: Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_.
10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 8.

## Review Date 3/12/2019

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Weight Loss
Surgery](https://medlineplus.gov/images/WeightLossSurgery_thumb.jpg)Weight
Loss Surgery _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

