Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007199.htm    
                                Description: Gastric bypass is surgery that helps you lose weight by changing how your stomach and small intestine handle the food you eat.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Gastric bypass surgery

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007199.htm

# Gastric bypass surgery

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Gastric bypass is surgery that helps you lose weight by changing how your
stomach and small intestine handle the food you eat.

After the surgery, your stomach will be smaller. You will feel full with less
food.

The food you eat will no longer go into some parts of your stomach and small
intestine that absorb food. Because of this, your body will not get all of the
calories from the food you eat.

## Description

You will have general anesthesia before this surgery. You will be asleep and
pain-free.

There are 2 steps during gastric bypass surgery:

    * The first step makes your stomach smaller. Your surgeon uses staples to divide your stomach into a small upper section and a larger bottom section. The top section of your stomach (called the pouch) is where the food you eat will go. The pouch is about the size of a walnut. It holds only about 1 ounce (oz) or 28 grams (g) of food. Because of this you will eat less and lose weight.
    * The second step is the bypass. Your surgeon connects a small part of your small intestine (the jejunum) to a small hole in your pouch. The food you eat will now travel from the pouch into this new opening and into your small intestine. As a result, your body will absorb fewer calories. 

Gastric bypass can be done in two ways. With open surgery, your surgeon makes
a large surgical cut to open your belly. The bypass is done by working on your
stomach, small intestine, and other organs.

Another way to do this surgery is to use a tiny camera, called a laparoscope.
This camera is placed in your belly. The surgery is called laparoscopy. The
scope allows the surgeon to see inside your belly.

In this surgery:

    * The surgeon makes 4 to 6 small cuts in your belly.
    * The scope and instruments needed to perform the surgery are inserted through these cuts.
    * The camera is connected to a video monitor in the operating room. This allows the surgeon to view inside your belly while doing the operation. 

Advantages of laparoscopy over open surgery include:

    * Shorter hospital stay and quicker recovery.
    * Less pain.
    * Smaller scars and a lower risk of getting a hernia or infection. 

This surgery takes about 2 to 4 hours.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Weight-loss surgery may be an option if you are very obese and have not been
able to lose weight through diet and exercise.

Doctors often use the body mass index (BMI) and health conditions such as type
2 diabetes (diabetes that started in adulthood) and high blood pressure to
determine which people are most likely to benefit from weight-loss surgery.

Gastric bypass surgery is not a quick fix for obesity. It will greatly change
your lifestyle. After this surgery, you must eat healthy foods, control
portion sizes of what you eat, and exercise. If you do not follow these
measures, you may have complications from the surgery and poor weight loss.

Be sure to discuss the benefits and risks with your surgeon.

This procedure may be recommended if you have:

    * A BMI of 40 or more. Someone with a BMI of 40 or more is at least 100 pounds (45 kilograms) over their recommended weight. A normal BMI is between 18.5 and 25.
    * A BMI of 35 or more and a serious medical condition that might improve with weight loss. Some of these conditions are obstructive sleep apnea, type 2 diabetes, and heart disease.

## Risks

Gastric bypass is major surgery and it has many risks. Some of these risks are
very serious. You should discuss these risks with your surgeon.

Risks for anesthesia and surgery in general include:

    * Allergic reactions to medicines
    * Breathing problems
    * Bleeding, blood clots, infection
    * Heart problemsÂ 

Risks for gastric bypass include:

    * Gastritis (inflamed stomach lining), heartburn, or stomach ulcers
    * Injury to the stomach, intestines, or other organs during surgery
    * Leaking from the line where parts of the stomach have been stapled together
    * Poor nutrition
    * Scarring inside your belly that could lead to a blockage in your bowel in the future
    * Vomiting from eating more than your stomach pouch can hold 

## Before the Procedure

Your surgeon will ask you to have tests and visits with other health care
providers before you have this surgery. Some of these are:

    * A complete physical exam.
    * Blood tests, ultrasound of your gallbladder, and other tests to make sure you are healthy enough to have surgery.
    * Visits with your doctor to make sure other medical problems you may have, such as diabetes, high blood pressure, and heart or lung problems, are under control.
    * Nutritional counseling.
    * Classes to help you learn what happens during the surgery, what you should expect afterward, and what risks or problems may occur afterward.
    * You may want to visit with a counselor to make sure you are emotionally ready for this surgery. You must be able to make major changes in your lifestyle after surgery. 

If you smoke, you should stop several weeks before surgery and not start
smoking again after surgery. Smoking slows recovery and increases the risks
for problems. Tell your doctor or nurse if you need help quitting.

Tell your surgeon or nurse:

    * If you are or might be pregnant
    * What medicines, vitamins, herbs, and other supplements you are taking, even ones you bought without a prescription 

During the week before your surgery:

    * You may be asked to stop taking medicines that make it hard for your blood to clot. These include aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), warfarin (Coumadin), and others.
    * Ask your doctor which drugs you should still take on the day of your surgery.
    * Prepare your home for after the surgery. 

On the day of surgery:

    * Follow instructions about when to stop eating and drinking.
    * Take the drugs your doctor told you to take with a small sip of water.
    * Arrive at the hospital on time. 

## After the Procedure

Most people stay in the hospital for 1 to 4 days after surgery.

In the hospital:

    * You will be asked to sit on the side of the bed and walk a little on the same day you have surgery.
    * You may have a (tube) catheter that goes through your nose into your stomach for 1 or 2 days. This tube helps drain fluids from your intestine.
    * You may have a catheter in your bladder to remove urine.
    * You will not be able to eat for the first 1 to 3 days. After that, you can have liquids and then pureed or soft foods.
    * You may have a tube connected to the larger part of your stomach that was bypassed. The catheter will come out of your side and will drain fluids.
    * You will wear special stockings on your legs to help prevent blood clots from forming.
    * You will receive shots of medicine to prevent blood clots.
    * You will receive pain medicine. You will take pills for pain or receive pain medicine through an IV, a catheter that goes into your vein.

You will be able to go home when:

    * You can eat liquid or pureed food without vomiting.
    * You can move around without a lot of pain.
    * You do not need pain medicine through an IV or given by shot.

Be sure to follow instructions for how to care for yourself at home.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most people lose about 10 to 20 pounds (4.5 to 9 kilograms) a month in the
first year after surgery. Weight loss will decrease over time. By sticking to
your diet and exercise from the beginning, you lose more weight.

You may lose one half or more of your extra weight in the first 2 years. You
will lose weight quickly after surgery if you are still on a liquid or pureed
diet.

Losing enough weight after surgery can improve many medical conditions,
including:

    * Asthma
    * Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD)
    * High blood pressure
    * High cholesterol
    * Obstructive sleep apnea
    * Type 2 diabetes 

Weighing less should also make it much easier for you to move around and do
your everyday activities.

To lose weight and avoid complications from the procedure, you will need to
follow the exercise and eating guidelines that your doctor and dietitian have
given you.

## Alternative Names

Bariatric surgery - gastric bypass; Roux-en-Y gastric bypass; Gastric bypass -
Roux-en-Y; Weight-loss surgery - gastric bypass; Obesity surgery - gastric
bypass

## Patient Instructions

    * After weight-loss surgery - what to ask your doctor
    * Bathroom safety for adults
    * Before weight-loss surgery - what to ask your doctor
    * Gastric bypass surgery - discharge 
    * Laparoscopic gastric banding - discharge 
    * Preventing falls
    * Surgical wound care - open
    * When you have nausea and vomiting
    * Your diet after gastric bypass surgery

## Images

    * ![Roux-en-Y stomach surgery for weight loss](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19268t.jpg)Roux-en-Y stomach surgery for weight loss
    * ![Adjustable gastric banding](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19497t.jpg)Adjustable gastric banding
    * ![Vertical banded gastroplasty](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19498t.jpg)Vertical banded gastroplasty
    * ![Biliopancreatic diversion \(BPD\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19499t.jpg)Biliopancreatic diversion (BPD)
    * ![Biliopancreatic diversion with duodenal switch](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19500t.jpg)Biliopancreatic diversion with duodenal switch
    * ![Dumping syndrome](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19830t.jpg)Dumping syndrome

## References

Buchwald H. Laparoscopic Roux-en-Y gastric bypass. In: Buchwald H, ed.
_Buchwald's Atlas of Metabolic & Bariatric Surgical Techniques and
Procedures_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2012:chap 6.

Buchwald H. Open Roux-en-Y gastric bypass. In: Buchwald H, ed. _Buchwald's
Atlas of Metabolic & Bariatric Surgical Techniques and Procedures_.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2012:chap 5.

Halperin F, Ding SA, Simonson DC, et al. Roux-en-Y gastric bypass surgery or
lifestyle with intensive medical management in patients with type 2 diabetes:
feasibility and 1-year results of a randomized clinical trial. _JAMA Surg_.
2014;149(7):716-726. PMID: 24899464 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24899464.

Mingrone G, Panunzi S, De Gaetano A, et al. Bariatric-metabolic surgery versus
conventional medical treatment in obese patients with type 2 diabetes: 5 year
follow-up of an open-label, single-centre, randomised controlled trial.
_Lancet_. 2015;386(9997):964-973. PMID: 26369473.
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26369473.

Richards WO. Morbid obesity. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM,
Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 47.

Thompson CC, Morton JM. Surgical and endoscopic treatment of obesity. In:
Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's
Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 8.

## Review Date 6/21/2018

Updated by: Joshua Kunin, MD, Consulting Colorectal Surgeon, Zichron Yaakov,
Israel. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Weight Loss
Surgery](https://medlineplus.gov/images/WeightLossSurgery_thumb.jpg)Weight
Loss Surgery _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

