Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001146.htm    
                                Description: Blind loop syndrome occurs when digested food slows or stops moving through part of the intestines. This causes an overgrowth of bacteria in the intestines. It also leads to problems absorbing nutrients.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Blind loop syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001146.htm

# Blind loop syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Blind loop syndrome occurs when digested food slows or stops moving through
part of the intestines. This causes an overgrowth of bacteria in the
intestines. It also leads to problems absorbing nutrients.

## Causes

The name of this condition refers to the "blind loop" formed by part of the
intestine that is bypassed. This blockage does not allow digested food to flow
normally through the intestinal tract.

The substances needed to digest fats (called bile salts) do not work as they
should when a section of the intestine is affected by blind loop syndrome.
This prevents fat and fat-soluble vitamins from being absorbed into the body.
It also leads to fatty stools. Vitamin B12 deficiency may occur because the
extra bacteria that form in the blind loop use up this vitamin.

Blind loop syndrome is a complication that occurs:

    * After many operations, including subtotal gastrectomy (surgical removal of part of the stomach) and operations for extreme obesity
    * As a complication of inflammatory bowel disease

Diseases such as diabetes or scleroderma may slow down movement in a segment
of the intestine, leading to blind loop syndrome.

## Symptoms

Symptoms include:

    * Diarrhea
    * Fatty stools
    * Fullness after a meal
    * Loss of appetite
    * Nausea
    * Unintentional weight loss

## Exams and Tests

During a physical exam, the health care provider may notice a mass in, or
swelling of the abdomen. Possible tests include:

    * Abdominal CT scan
    * Abdominal x-ray
    * Blood tests to check nutritional status
    * Upper GI series with small bowel follow through contrast x-ray

## Treatment

Treatment most often starts with antibiotics for the excess bacteria growth,
along with vitamin B12 supplements. If antibiotics are not effective, surgery
may be needed to help food flow through the intestines.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Many people get better with antibiotics. If surgical repair is needed, the
outcome is often very good.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Complete intestinal obstruction
    * Death of intestine (intestinal infarction)
    * Hole (perforation) in intestine
    * Malabsorption and malnutrition

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of blind loop syndrome.

## Alternative Names

Stasis syndrome; Stagnant loop syndrome; Small bowel bacterial overgrowth

## Images

    * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
    * ![Stomach and small intestine](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8940t.jpg)Stomach and small intestine

## References

Harris JW, Evers BM. Small intestine. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers
BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery: The Biological Basis of
Modern Surgical Practice_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 49.

Semrad CE. Approach to the patient with diarrhea and malabsorption. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 140.

## Review Date 10/26/2017

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Crohn's
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Crohn'sDisease_thumb.jpg)Crohn's
Disease _Read more_

![Malabsorption
Syndromes](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MalabsorptionSyndromes_thumb.jpg)Malabsorption
Syndromes _Read more_

![Scleroderma](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Scleroderma_thumb.jpg)Scleroderma
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

