Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000334.htm    
                                Description: You had laparoscopic gastric banding. This surgery made your stomach smaller by closing off part of your stomach with an adjustable band. After surgery you will eat less food, and you will not be able    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Diet after gastric banding

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000334.htm

# Diet after gastric banding

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You had laparoscopic gastric banding. This surgery made your stomach smaller
by closing off part of your stomach with an adjustable band. After surgery you
will eat less food, and you will not be able to eat quickly.

Your health care provider will teach you about foods you can eat and foods you
should avoid. It is very important to follow these diet guidelines.

## When you go Home From the Hospital

You will eat only liquid or pureed food for 2 to 3 weeks after your surgery.
You will slowly add in soft foods, and then regular foods.

When you start eating solid foods again, you will feel full very quickly. Just
a few bites of solid food will fill you up. This is because your new stomach
pouch holds only a tablespoonful of food at first, about the size of a walnut.

Your pouch may get larger over time. You DO NOT want to stretch it out, so DO
NOT eat more than your provider advises. When your pouch is larger, it will
not hold more than about 1 cup (250 milliliters) of chewed food. A normal
stomach can hold up to 4 cups (1 liter, L) of chewed food.

You may lose weight quickly in the first 3 to 6 months after surgery. During
this time, you may have:

    * Body aches
    * Feel tired and cold
    * Dry skin
    * Mood changes
    * Hair loss or hair thinning 

These symptoms are normal. They should go away as your body gets used to your
weight loss.

## A new way of Eating

Remember to eat slowly and chew each bite very slowly and completely. DO NOT
swallow food until it is smooth. The opening between your new stomach pouch
and the large part of the stomach is very small. Food that is not chewed well
can block this opening.

    * Take 20 to 30 minutes to eat a meal. If you vomit or have pain under your breastbone during or after eating, you may be eating too fast.
    * Eat 6 small meals during the day instead of 3 bigger meals. DO NOT snack between meals.
    * STOP EATING AS SOON AS YOU FEEL FULL.
    * DO NOT eat if you are not hungry.
    * Use small plates and utensils to help control portion sizes. 

Some foods you eat may cause some pain or discomfort if you do not chew them
completely. Some of these are pasta, rice, bread, raw vegetables, and meats.
Adding a low-fat sauce, broth gravy can make them easier to digest. Other
foods that may cause discomfort are dry foods, such as popcorn and nuts, or
fibrous foods, such as celery and corn.

You will need to drink up to 8 cups (64 ounces), or 2 L, of water or other
calorie-free liquids every day:

    * DO NOT drink anything for 30 minutes after a meal. Also, DO NOT drink anything while you are eating. The liquid will fill you up, and this may keep you from eating enough healthy food. Or it may lubricate the food and allow you to eat more than you should.
    * Take small sips when you are drinking. DO NOT gulp.
    * Ask your provider before using a straw, since it may bring air in your stomach. 

## Follow Your Diet Carefully

You will need to make sure you are getting enough protein, vitamins, and
minerals while you are losing weight quickly. Eating mostly protein, fruits,
vegetables, and whole grains will help your body get the nutrients it needs.

Protein may be the most important of these foods. Your body needs protein to
build muscles and other body tissues. Low-fat protein choices include:

    * Skinless chicken
    * Lean beef or pork
    * Fish
    * Whole eggs or egg whites
    * Beans
    * Dairy products, which includes low-fat or nonfat hard cheeses, cottage cheese, milk, and yogurt

Combining foods with texture together with protein helps people who have a
gastric band stay satisfied longer. This includes things like salad with
grilled chicken or celery with peanut butter.

Because you are eating less, your body may not be getting enough of some
important vitamins and minerals. Your provider may prescribe these:

    * Multivitamin with iron
    * Vitamin B12
    * Calcium (1,200 mg per day) and vitamin D. Your body can absorb only about 500 mg of calcium at a time. Divide your calcium into 2 or 3 doses per day.

You will need to have regular checkups to keep track of your weight and to
make sure you are eating well. These visits are a good time to talk about any
problems you are having with your diet, or about other issues related to your
surgery and recovery.

## Calories Still Count

Read food labels to avoid high-calorie foods. It is important to get as many
nutrients as you can without eating too many calories.

    * DO NOT eat foods that contain a lot of fats, sugar, or carbohydrates, particularly "slider" foods. These are foods that dissolve easily or pass quickly through the band.
    * DO NOT drink much alcohol. Alcohol contains a lot of calories, but it does not provide nutrition. Avoid it completely if you can.
    * DO NOT drink fluids that have a lot of calories. Avoid drinks that have sugar, fructose, or corn syrup in them.
    * Avoid carbonated drinks, such as soda and sparkling water. Let soda go flat before drinking. 

If you gain weight or your weight loss is slower than expected, ask yourself:

    * Am I eating too many high-calorie foods or drinks?
    * Am I eating too often?
    * Am I exercising enough? 

## Alternative Names

Gastric banding surgery - your diet; Obesity - diet after banding; Weight loss
- diet after banding

## Images

    * ![Adjustable gastric banding](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19497t.jpg)Adjustable gastric banding

## References

Boyett D, Magnuson T, Schweitzer M. Metabolic changes following bariatric
surgery. In: Cameron JL, Cameron AM, eds. _Current Surgical Therapy_. 12th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:802-806.

Mechanick JI, Kushner RF, Sugerman HJ, et al. American Association of Clinical
Endocrinologists, The Obesity Society, and American Society for Metabolic &
Bariatric Surgery medical guidelines for clinical practice for the
perioperative nutritional, metabolic, and nonsurgical support of the bariatric
surgery patient. _Obesity (Silver Spring)_. 2009;17 Suppl 1:S1-S70. PMID:
19319140 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19319140.

Thompson CC, Morton JM. Surgical and endoscopic treatment of obesity. In:
Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's
Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 8.

## Review Date 7/11/2018

Updated by: Ann Rogers, MD, Associate Professor of Surgery; Director, Penn
State Surgical Weight Loss Program, Penn State Milton S. Hershey Medical
Center, Hershey, PA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Weight Loss Surgery

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

