Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000259.htm    
                                Description: Weight-loss surgery is done to help you lose weight and get healthier. After the surgery, you will not be able to eat as much as before. Depending on the type of surgery you have, your body may not absorb    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Before weight-loss surgery - what to ask your doctor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000259.htm

# Before weight-loss surgery - what to ask your doctor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Weight-loss surgery is done to help you lose weight and get healthier. After
the surgery, you will not be able to eat as much as before. Depending on the
type of surgery you have, your body may not absorb all the calories from the
food you eat.

Below are some questions you may want to ask your health care provider before
you have weight-loss surgery.

## Questions

What are the reasons someone should have weight-loss surgery?

    * Why is weight-loss surgery not a good choice for everyone who is overweight or obese?
    * What is diabetes? High blood pressure? High cholesterol? Sleep apnea? Severe arthritis? 

Are there other ways of losing weight that I should try beside surgery?

    * What is a nutritionist, or a dietitian? Why should I make an appointment to see one?
    * What is a weight-loss program? 

What are the different types of weight-loss surgery?

    * What are the scars like for each type of surgery?
    * Is there a difference in how much pain I will have afterward?
    * Is there a difference in how long it will take to get better? 

What is the best surgery to help me lose weight and keep it off?

    * How much weight will I lose? How fast will I lose it? Will I continue to lose weight?
    * What will eating be like after weight-loss surgery? 

What can I do before surgery to lower my risk of complications? For which of
my medical problems (such as diabetes, heart disease, or high blood pressure)
do I need to see my doctor before the surgery?

How can I get my home ready before I go to the hospital?

    * How much help will I need when I come home?
    * Will I be able to get out of bed by myself?
    * How do I make sure my home will be safe for me?
    * What type of supplies will I need when I get home?
    * Do I need to rearrange my home? 

How can I prepare myself emotionally for the surgery? What types of feelings
can I expect to have? Can I talk to people who have had weight-loss surgery?

What medicines should I take the day of the surgery? Are there any medicines
that I should not take the day of the surgery?

What will the surgery and my stay in the hospital be like?

    * How long will the surgery last?
    * What type of anesthesia will be used? Are there choices to consider?
    * Will I be in a lot of pain after surgery? What will be done to relieve the pain?
    * How soon will I be able to get up and move around? 

What will my wounds be like? How do I take care of them?

How active can I be when I get home? How much can I lift? When will I be able
to drive? When will I be able to return to work?

When will my first follow-up appointment be after surgery? How often will I
need to see the doctor during the first year after my surgery? Will I need to
see specialists other than my surgeon?

## Alternative Names

Gastric bypass - before - what to ask your doctor; Roux-en-Y gastric bypass -
before - what to ask your doctor; Gastric banding - before - what to ask your
doctor; Vertical sleeve surgery - before - what to ask your doctor; What to
ask your doctor before weight-loss surgery

## References

American Society for Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery website. Bariatric
surgery FAQs. asmbs.org/patients/bariatric-surgery-faqs. Accessed April 22,
2019.

Mechanick JI, Youdim A, Jones DB, et al. Clinical practice guidelines for the
perioperative nutritional, metabolic, and nonsurgical support of the bariatric
surgery patient - 2013 update: cosponsored by American Association of Clinical
Endocrinologists, The Obesity Society, and American Society for Metabolic and
Bariatric Surgery. _Endocr Pract_. 2013;19(2):337-372. PMID: 23529351
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23529351.

Richards WO. Morbid obesity. In: Townsend CM, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox
KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery: The Biological Basis of Modern
Surgical Practice_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 47.

## Read More

    * Body mass index
    * Coronary heart disease
    * Gastric bypass surgery
    * Laparoscopic gastric banding
    * Obstructive sleep apnea - adults
    * Type 2 diabetes

## Patient Instructions

    * After weight-loss surgery - what to ask your doctor
    * Gastric bypass surgery - discharge 
    * Laparoscopic gastric banding - discharge 
    * Your diet after gastric bypass surgery

## Review Date 3/22/2019

Updated by: Ann Rogers, MD, Associate Professor of Surgery; Director, Penn
State Surgical Weight Loss Program, Penn State Milton S. Hershey Medical
Center, Hershey, PA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Weight Loss Surgery

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

