Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000477.htm    
                                Description: Urostomy pouches are special bags that are used to collect urine after bladder surgery.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Urostomy - stoma and skin care

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000477.htm

# Urostomy - stoma and skin care

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Urostomy pouches are special bags that are used to collect urine after bladder
surgery.

Instead of going to your bladder, urine will go outside of your abdomen. The
part that sticks outside your abdomen is called the stoma.

After a urostomy, your urine will go through your stoma into a special bag
called a urostomy pouch.

Caring for your stoma and the skin around it is very important to prevent
infection of your skin and kidneys.

## About Your Stoma

Your stoma is made from the part of your small intestine called the ileum.
Your ureters are attached to the end of a small piece of your ileum. The other
end becomes the stoma and is pulled through the skin of your abdomen.

A stoma is very delicate. A healthy stoma is pinkish-red and moist. Your stoma
should stick out slightly from your skin. It is normal to see a little mucus.
Spots of blood or a small amount of bleeding from your stoma is normal.

You should never stick anything into your stoma, unless your health care
provider tells you to.

Your stoma has no nerve endings, so you will not be able to feel when
something touches it. You also will not feel if it is cut or scraped. But you
will see a yellow or white line on the stoma if it is scraped.

## Caring for the Skin Around Your Stoma

After surgery, the skin around your stoma should look like it did before
surgery. The best way to protect your skin is by:

    * Using a urostomy bag or pouch with the correct size opening, so urine does not leak
    * Taking good care of the skin around your stoma 

To care for you skin in this area:

    * Wash your skin with warm water and dry it well before you attach the pouch.
    * Avoid skin care products that contain alcohol. These can make your skin too dry.
    * DO NOT use products on the skin around your stoma that contain oil. These can make it hard to attach the pouch to your skin.
    * Use special skin care products. This will make problems with your skin less likely. 

Be sure to treat any skin redness or skin changes right away, when the problem
is minor. DO NOT allow the problem area to become larger or more irritated
before asking your provider about it.

The skin around your stoma can become sensitive to the supplies you use, such
as the skin barrier, tape, adhesive, or the pouch itself. This could happen
slowly over time and not occur for weeks, months, or even years after using a
product.

If you have hair on your skin around your stoma, removing it may help the
pouch to more securely stay in place.

    * Use trimming scissors, an electric shaver, or have laser treatment to remove the hair.
    * DO NOT use a straight edge or safety razor.
    * Be careful to protect your stoma if you remove hair around it.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if you notice any of these changes in your stoma or the
skin around it.

If your stoma:

    * Is purple, gray, or black
    * Has a bad odor
    * Is dry
    * Pulls away from the skin
    * Opening gets big enough for your intestines to come through it
    * Is at skin level or deeper
    * Pushes farther out from the skin and gets longer
    * Skin opening becomes narrower

If the skin around your stoma:

    * Pulls back
    * Is red
    * Hurts
    * Burns
    * Swells
    * Bleeds
    * Is draining fluid
    * Itches
    * Has white, gray, brown, or dark red bumps on it
    * Has bumps around a hair follicle that are filled with pus
    * Has sores with uneven edges

Also call if you:

    * Have less urine output than usual
    * Fever
    * Pain
    * Have any questions or concerns about your stoma or skin

## Alternative Names

Ostomy care - urostomy; Urinary diversion - urostomy stoma; Cystectomy -
urostomy stoma; Ileal conduit

## References

American Cancer Society website. Urostomy guide.
www.cancer.org/treatment/treatments-and-side-effects/physical-side-
effects/ostomies/urostomy.html. Updated June 2, 2017. Accessed June 8, 2018.

DeCastro GJ, McKiernan JM, Benson MC. Cutaneous continent urinary diversion.
In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_.
11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 98.

Lyon CC. Stoma care. In: Lebwohl MG, Heymann WR, Berth-Jones J, Coulson IH,
eds. _Treatment of Skin Disease: Comprehensive Therapeutic Strategies_. 5th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 233.

## Review Date 5/31/2018

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Bladder Cancer
    * Bladder Diseases
    * Ostomy

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

