Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003782.htm    
                                Description: An intravenous pyelogram (IVP) is a special x-ray exam of the kidneys, bladder, and ureters (the tubes that carry urine from the kidneys to the bladder).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Intravenous pyelogram

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003782.htm

# Intravenous pyelogram

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An intravenous pyelogram (IVP) is a special x-ray exam of the kidneys,
bladder, and ureters (the tubes that carry urine from the kidneys to the
bladder).

## How the Test is Performed

An IVP is done in a hospital radiology department or a health care provider's
office.

You may be asked to take some medicine to clear your bowels before the
procedure to provide a better view of the urinary tract. You will need to
empty your bladder right before the procedure starts.

Your provider will inject an iodine-based contrast (dye) into a vein in your
arm. A series of x-ray images are taken at different times. This is to see how
the kidneys remove the dye and how it collects in your urine.

You will need to lie still during the procedure. The test may take up to an
hour.

Before the final image is taken, you will be asked to urinate again. This is
to see how well the bladder has emptied.

You can go back to your normal diet and medicines after the procedure. You
should drink plenty of fluids to help remove all the contrast dye from your
body.

## How to Prepare for the Test

As with all x-ray procedures, tell your provider if you:

    * Are allergic to contrast material
    * Are pregnant
    * Have any drug allergies
    * Have kidney disease or diabetes

Your provider will tell you if you can eat or drink before this test. You may
be given a laxative to take the afternoon before the procedure to clear the
intestines. This will help your kidneys to be seen clearly.

You must sign a consent form. You will be asked to wear a hospital gown and to
remove all jewelry.

## How the Test will Feel

You may feel a burning or flushing sensation in your arm and body as the
contrast dye is injected. You may also have a metallic taste in your mouth.
This is normal and will go away quickly.

Some people develop a headache, nausea, or vomiting after the dye is injected.

The belt across the kidneys may feel tight over your belly area.

## Why the Test is Performed

An IVP can be used to evaluate:

    * An abdominal injury
    * Bladder and kidney infections
    * Blood in the urine
    * Flank pain (possibly due to kidney stones)
    * Tumors 

## What Abnormal Results Mean

The test may reveal kidney diseases, birth defects of the urinary system,
tumors, kidney stones, or damage to the urinary system.

## Risks

There is a chance of an allergic reaction to the dye, even if you have
received contrast dye in the past without any problem. If you have a known
allergy to iodine-based contrast, a different test can be done. Other tests
include retrograde pyelography, MRI, or ultrasound.

There is low radiation exposure. Most experts feel that the risk is low
compared with the benefits.

Children are more sensitive to the risks of radiation. This test is not likely
to be done during pregnancy.

## Considerations

Computed tomography (CT) scans have replaced IVP as the main tool for checking
the urinary system. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is also used to look at
the kidneys, ureters, and bladder.

## Alternative Names

Excretory urography; IVP

## Images

    * ![Kidney anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1101t.jpg)Kidney anatomy
    * ![Kidney - blood and urine flow](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1704t.jpg)Kidney - blood and urine flow
    * ![Intravenous pyelogram](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9481t.jpg)Intravenous pyelogram

## References

Bishoff JT, Rastinehad AR. Urinary tract imaging: basic principles of computed
tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, and plain film. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi
LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 2.

Gallagher KM, Hughes J. Urinary tract obstruction. In: Feehally J, Floege J,
Tonelli M, Johnson RJ, eds. _Comprehensive Clinical Nephrology_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 58.

Sakhaee K, Moe OW. Urolithiasis. In: Skorecki K, Chertow GM, Marsden PA, Taal
MW, Yu ASL, eds. _Brenner and Rector's The Kidney_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 40.

## Review Date 1/31/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bladder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BladderCancerandDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bladder
Cancer _Read more_

![Bladder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BladderCancerandDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bladder
Diseases _Read more_

![Kidney Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyCancer_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Cancer _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

