Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003902.htm    
                                Description: Bladder biopsy is a procedure in which small pieces of tissueÂ are removed from the bladder. The tissue is tested under a microscope.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bladder biopsy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003902.htm

# Bladder biopsy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Bladder biopsy is a procedure in which small pieces of tissueÂ are removed
from the bladder. The tissue is tested under a microscope.

## How the Test is Performed

A bladder biopsy can be done as part of a cystoscopy. Cystoscopy is a
procedure that is done to see the inside of the bladder using a thin lighted
tube called a cystoscope. A small piece of tissue or the entire abnormal area
is removed. The tissue is sent to the lab to be tested if:

    * Abnormalities of the bladder are found during this exam
    * A tumor is seen 

## How to Prepare for the Test

You must sign an informed consent form before you have a bladder biopsy. In
most cases, you are asked to urinate just before the procedure. You may also
be asked to take an antibiotic before the procedure.

For infants and children, the preparation you can provide for this test
depends on your child's age, previous experiences, and level of trust. For
general information regarding how you can prepare your child, see the
following topics:

    * Infant test or procedure preparation (birth to 1 year)
    * Toddler test or procedure preparation (1 to 3 years)
    * Preschooler test or procedure preparation (3 to 6 years)
    * School age test or procedure preparation (6 to 12 years)
    * Adolescent test or procedure preparation (12 to 18 years) 

## How the Test will Feel

You may have a slight discomfort as the cystoscope is passed through your
urethra into your bladder. You will feel discomfort that is similar to a
strong urge to urinate when the fluid has filled your bladder.

You may feel a pinch during the biopsy. There may be a burning sensation when
the blood vessels are sealed to stop bleeding (cauterized).

After the cystoscope is removed, your urethra may be sore. You may feel a
burning sensation during urination for a day or two. There may be blood in the
urine. In most cases, this will go away on its own.

In some cases, the biopsy needs to be taken from a large area. In that case,
you may need general anesthesia or sedation before the procedure.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is most often done to check for cancer of the bladder or urethra.

## Normal Results

The bladder wall is smooth. The bladder is of a normal size, shape, and
position. There are no blockages, growths, or stones.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

The presence of cancer cells indicates bladder cancer. The type of cancer can
be determined from the biopsy sample.

Other abnormalities may include:

    * Bladder diverticula
    * Cysts
    * Inflammation
    * Infection
    * Ulcers

## Risks

There is some risk for urinary tract infection.

There is a slight risk for excessive bleeding. There may be a rupture of the
bladder wall with the cystoscope or during biopsy.

There is also a risk that the biopsy will fail to detect a serious condition.

## Considerations

You will likely have a small amount of blood in your urine shortly after this
procedure. If the bleeding continues after you urinate, contact your health
care provider.

Also contact your provider if:

    * You have pain, chills, or a fever
    * You are producing less urine than usual (oliguria)
    * You cannot urinate despite a strong urge to do so

## Alternative Names

Biopsy - bladder

## Images

    * ![Bladder catheterization - female](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1065t.jpg)Bladder catheterization - female
    * ![Bladder catheterization - male](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1066t.jpg)Bladder catheterization - male
    * ![Female urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1122t.jpg)Female urinary tract
    * ![Male urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1123t.jpg)Male urinary tract
    * ![Bladder biopsy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9546t.jpg)Bladder biopsy

## References

Bent AE, Cundiff GW. Cystourethroscopy. In: Baggish MS, Karram MM, eds. _Atlas
of Pelvic Anatomy and Gynecologic Surgery_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 122.

Duty BD, Conlin MJ. Principles of urologic endoscopy. In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi
LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 7.

National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases website.
Cystoscopy and ureteroscopy. www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/health-
topics/diagnostic-tests/cystoscopy-ureteroscopy. Updated June 2015. Accessed
June 9, 2018.

Smith TG, Coburn M. Urologic surgery. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers
BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 72.

## Review Date 5/31/2018

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Biopsy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Biopsy_thumb.jpg)Biopsy _Read more_

![Bladder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BladderCancerandDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bladder
Cancer _Read more_

![Bladder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BladderCancerandDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bladder
Diseases _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

