Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003905.htm    
                                Description: A cytology exam of urine is a test used to detect cancer and other diseases of the urinary tract.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cytology exam of urine

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003905.htm

# Cytology exam of urine

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A cytology exam of urine is a test used to detect cancer and other diseases of
the urinary tract.

## How the Test is Performed

Most of the time, the sample is collected as a clean catch urine sample in
your doctor's office or at home. This is done by urinating into a special
container. The clean-catch method is used to prevent germs from the penis or
vagina from getting into a urine sample. To collect your urine, you may get a
special clean-catch kit from your health care provider that contains a
cleansing solution and sterile wipes. Follow instructions exactly.

The urine sample can also be collected during cystoscopy. During this
procedure, your provider uses a thin, tube-like instrument with a camera on
the end to examine the inside of your bladder.

The urine sample is sent to a lab and examined under a microscope to look for
abnormal cells.

## How to Prepare for the Test

No special preparation is needed.

## How the Test will Feel

There is no discomfort with a clean catch urine specimen. During cystoscopy,
there may be slight discomfort when the scope is passed through the urethra
into the bladder.

## Why the Test is Performed

The test is done to detect cancer of the urinary tract. It is often done when
blood is seen in the urine.

It is also useful for monitoring people who have a history of urinary tract
cancer. The test may sometimes be ordered for people who are at high risk for
bladder cancer.

This test can also detect cytomegalovirus and other viral diseases.

## Normal Results

The urine shows normal cells.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal cells in the urine may be a sign of inflammation of the urinary tract
or cancer of the kidney, ureters, bladder, or urethra.

Be aware that cancer or inflammatory disease cannot be diagnosed with this
test alone. The results need to be confirmed with other tests or procedures.

## Risks

There are no risks with this test.

## Alternative Names

Urine cytology; Bladder cancer - cytology; Urethral cancer - cytology; Renal
cancer - cytology

## Images

    * ![Bladder catheterization, female](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1065t.jpg)Bladder catheterization - female
    * ![Bladder catheterization, male](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1066t.jpg)Bladder catheterization - male

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Cytologic study of urine - diagnostic. In: Chernecky
CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:430.

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Cystoscopy - diagnostic. In: Chernecky CC, Berger BJ,
eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO:
Elsevier Saunders; 2013:421-423.

Riley RS, McPherson RA. Basic examination of urine. In: McPherson RA, Pincus
MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_.
23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 28.

Smith A, Balar AV, Milowsky MI, Chen RC. Bladder cancer. In: Niederhuber JE,
Armitage JE, Doroshow JH, Kastan MB, Tepper JE, eds. _Abeloff's Clinical
Oncology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 83.

## Review Date 8/26/2017

Updated by: Jennifer Sobol, DO, urologist with the Michigan Institute of
Urology, West Bloomfield, MI. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network.
Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway,
Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bladder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BladderCancerandDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bladder
Cancer _Read more_

![Kidney Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyCancer_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Cancer _Read more_

![Urine and
Urination](https://medlineplus.gov/images/UrineandUrination_thumb.jpg)Urine
and Urination _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

