Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/intravenous-pyelogram-ivp/    
                                Description: An intravenous pyelogram (IVP) is an x-ray that provides images of the urinary tract. It can help diagnose disorders of the kidney, bladder, and ureters, the tubes that carry urine out of the bladder. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Intravenous Pyelogram (IVP)

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/intravenous-pyelogram-ivp/

# Intravenous Pyelogram (IVP)

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is an intravenous pyelogram (IVP)?

An intravenous pyelogram (IVP) is a type of x-ray that provides images of the
urinary tract. The urinary tract is made up of:

    *  **Kidneys** , two organs located below the rib cage. They filter the blood, remove wastes, and make urine.
    *  **Bladder** , a hollow organ in the pelvis area that stores your urine.
    *  **Ureters** , thin tubes that carry urine from your kidneys to your bladder.

In men, an IVP will also take images of the prostate, a gland in the male
reproductive system. The prostate lies below a man's bladder.

During an IVP, a health care provider will inject one of your veins with a
substance called contrast dye. The dye travels through your bloodstream and
into your urinary tract. Contrast dye makes your kidneys, bladder, and ureters
look bright white on the x-rays. This allows your provider to get clear,
detailed images of these organs. It can help show whether there are any
disorders or problems with the structure or function of the urinary tract.

Other names: excretory urography

## What is it used for?

An IVP is used to help diagnose disorders of the urinary tract. These include:

    * Kidney stones
    * Kidney cysts
    * Enlarged prostate
    * Tumors in the kidneys, bladder, or ureters
    * Birth defects that affect the structure of the urinary tract
    * Scarring from a urinary tract infection

## Why do I need an IVP?

You may need an IVP if you have symptoms of a urinary tract disorder. These
include:

    * Pain in your side or back
    * Abdominal pain
    * Blood in your urine
    * Cloudy urine
    * Pain when urinating
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Swelling in your feet or legs
    * Fever

## What happens during an IVP?

An IVP may be done in a hospital or a health care provider's office. The
procedure usually includes the following steps:

    * You will lie face up on an x-ray table.
    * A health care provider called a radiology technician will inject contrast dye into your arm.
    * You may have a special belt tightly wrapped around your abdomen. This can help the contrast dye stay in the urinary tract.
    * The technician will walk behind a wall or into another room to turn on the x-ray machine.
    * Several x-rays will be taken. You will need to stay very still while the images are being taken.
    * You will be asked to urinate. You will be given a bedpan or urinal, or you may be able to get up and use the bathroom.
    * After you've urinated, a final image will be taken to see how much contrast dye is left in the bladder.
    * When the test is over, you should drink plenty of fluids to help flush the contrast dye out of your body.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You may be asked to fast (not eat or drink) after midnight on the night before
your test. You may also be asked to take a mild laxative on the evening before
the procedure.

## Are there any risks to the test?

Some people may have an allergic reaction to the contrast dye. Reactions are
usually mild and may include itching and/or a rash. Serious complications are
rare. Be sure to tell your health care provider if you have other allergies.
This may put you at higher risk for an allergic reaction to the dye.

Some people may feel a mild itching sensation and a metallic taste in the
mouth as the contrast dye travels through the body. These feelings are
harmless and usually go away within a minute or two.

You should tell your health care provider if you are pregnant or think you may
be pregnant. An IVP delivers a low dose of radiation. The dose is safe for
most people, but it can be harmful to an unborn baby.

## What do the results mean?

Your results will be looked at by a radiologist, a doctor who specializes in
diagnosing and treating medical conditions using imaging technologies. He or
she will share the results with your health care provider.

If your results were not normal, it may mean you have one of the following
disorders:

    * Kidney stone
    * Kidneys, bladder, or ureters that have an abnormal shape, size, or position in the body
    * Damage or scarring of the urinary tract
    * Tumor or cyst in the urinary tract
    * Enlarged prostate (in men)

If you have questions about your results, talk to your health care provider.

## Is there anything else I need to know about an IVP?

IVP tests aren't used as often as CT (computerized tomography) scans for
viewing the urinary tract. A CT scan is a type of x-ray that takes a series of
pictures as it rotates around you. CT scans can provide more detailed
information than an IVP. But IVP tests can be very helpful in finding kidney
stones and certain urinary tract disorders. Also, an IVP test exposes you to
less radiation than a CT scan.

## References

    1. ACR: American College of Radiology [Internet]. Reston (VA): American College of Radiology; What Is a Radiologist? [cited 2019 Jan 16]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.acr.org/Practice-Management-Quality-Informatics/Practice-Toolkit/Patient-Resources/About-Radiology
    2. Mayo Clinic [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1998â2019. Intravenous pyelogram: Overview; 2018 May 9 [cited 2019 Jan 16]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayoclinic.org/tests-procedures/intravenous-pyelogram/about/pac-20394475
    3. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co., Inc.; c2019. Overview of Urinary Tract Symptoms [cited 2019 Jan 16]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.merckmanuals.com/home/kidney-and-urinary-tract-disorders/symptoms-of-kidney-and-urinary-tract-disorders/overview-of-urinary-tract-symptoms
    4. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms: prostate [cited 2019 Jan 16]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/publications/dictionaries/cancer-terms/search?q=prostate&redirect=true
    5. National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; The Urinary Tract and How It Works; 2014 Jan [cited 2019 Jan 16]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/urologic-diseases/urinary-tract-how-it-works
    6. Radiology Info.org [Internet]. Radiological Society of North America, Inc.; c2019. Intravenous Pyelogram (IVP) [cited 2019 Jan 16]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.radiologyinfo.org/en/info.cfm?pg=ivp
    7. Radiology Info.org [Internet]. Radiological Society of North America, Inc.; c2019. X-ray, Interventional Radiology and Nuclear Medicine Radiation Safety [cited 2019 Jan 16]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.radiologyinfo.org/en/info.cfm?pg=safety-radiation
    8. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida Health; c2019. Head CT scan: Overview [updated 2019 Jan 16; cited 2019 Jan 16]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/head-ct-scan
    9. UF Health: University of Florida Health [Internet]. Gainesville (FL): University of Florida Health; c2019. Intravenous pyelogram: Overview [updated 2019 Jan 16; cited 2019 Jan 16]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ufhealth.org/intravenous-pyelogram
    10. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2019. Health Encyclopedia: Intravenous Pyelogram [cited 2019 Jan 16]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=92&contentid=P07705
    11. Urology Care Foundation [Internet]. Linthicum (MD): Urology Care Foundation; c2018. What Happens during IVP? [cited 2019 Jan 16]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: http://www.urologyhealth.org/urologic-conditions/intravenous-pyelogram-(ivp)/procedure
    12. Urology Care Foundation [Internet]. Linthicum (MD): Urology Care Foundation; c2018. What is an Intravenous Pyelogram (IVP)? [cited 2019 Jan 16]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: http://www.urologyhealth.org/urologic-conditions/intravenous-pyelogram-(ivp)
    13. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Intravenous Pyelogram (IVP): How It Is Done [updated 2017 Oct 9; cited 2019 Jan 16]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/intravenous-pyelogram-ivp/hw231427.html#hw231450
    14. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Intravenous Pyelogram (IVP): How to Prepare [updated 2017 Oct 9; cited 2019 Jan 16]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/intravenous-pyelogram-ivp/hw231427.html#hw231438
    15. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Intravenous Pyelogram (IVP): Results [updated 2017 Oct 9; cited 2019 Jan 16]; [about 8 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/intravenous-pyelogram-ivp/hw231427.html#hw231469
    16. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Intravenous Pyelogram (IVP): Risks [updated 2017 Oct 9; cited 2019 Jan 16]; [about 7 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/intravenous-pyelogram-ivp/hw231427.html#hw231465
    17. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Intravenous Pyelogram (IVP): Test Overview [updated 2017 Oct 9; cited 2019 Jan 16]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/intravenous-pyelogram-ivp/hw231427.html#hw231430
    18. UW Health [Internet]. Madison (WI): University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; c2019. Intravenous Pyelogram (IVP): Why It Is Done [updated 2017 Oct 9; cited 2019 Jan 16]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.uwhealth.org/health/topic/medicaltest/intravenous-pyelogram-ivp/hw231427.html#hw231432

## Related Health Topics

    * Benign Tumors
    * Bladder Diseases
    * Cancer
    * Enlarged Prostate (BPH)
    * Kidney Cysts
    * Kidney Diseases
    * Kidney Stones
    * Kidney Tests
    * Urinary Tract Infections

## Related Lab Test Information

    * Calcium in Urine Test
    * Crystals in Urine
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results
    * Kidney Stone Analysis
    * Mucus in Urine

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 25 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

