Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000525.htm    
                                Description: Cancer of the renal pelvis or ureter is cancer that forms in the kidney    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Renal pelvis or ureter cancer

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000525.htm

# Renal pelvis or ureter cancer

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cancer of the renal pelvis or ureter is cancer that forms in the kidney's
pelvis or the tube (ureter) that carries urine from the kidney to the bladder.

## Causes

Cancer can grow in the urine collection system, but it is uncommon. Renal
pelvis and ureter cancers affect men more often than women. These cancers are
more common in people older than 65.

The exact causes of this cancer are not known. Long-term (chronic) irritation
of the kidney from harmful substances removed in the urine may be a factor.
This irritation may be caused by:

    * Kidney damage from medicines, especially ones for pain (analgesic nephropathy)
    * Exposure to certain dyes and chemicals used to manufacture leather goods, textiles, plastics, and rubber
    * Smoking 

People who have had bladder cancer are also at risk.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

    * Constant back pain
    * Blood in the urine
    * Burning, pain, or discomfort with urination
    * Fatigue
    * Flank pain
    * Unexplained weight lossÂ 
    * Loss of appetite
    * Anemia
    * Urinary frequency or urgency

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam, and examine your belly
area (abdomen). In rare cases, this may reveal an enlarged kidney.

If tests are done:

    * Urinalysis may show blood in the urine.
    * A complete blood count (CBC) may show anemia.
    * Urine cytology (microscopic examination of cells)Â may reveal cancer cells. 

Other tests that may be ordered include:

    * Abdominal CT scan
    * Chest x-ray
    * Cystoscopy with ureteroscopy
    * Intravenous pyelogram (IVP)
    * Kidney ultrasound
    * MRI of the abdomen
    * Renal scan

These tests may reveal a tumor or show that the cancer has spread from the
kidneys.

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to eliminate the cancer.

Following procedures may be used to treat the condition:

    * Nephroureterectomy -- This involves removal of entire kidney, ureter and the bladder cuff (tissue that connects ureter to the bladder)
    * Nephrectomy -- Surgery to remove all or part of the kidney is often done. This may include removing part of the bladder and tissues around it, or the lymph nodes.
    * Ureter resection -- Surgery to remove part of the ureter that contains cancer, and some healthy tissue around it. This may be used in case of superficial tumors present in lower part of the ureter near the bladder. This may help to preserve the kidney.
    * Chemotherapy \-- This is used when the cancer has spread outside of the kidney or ureter. Because these tumors are similar to a form of bladder cancer, they are treated with a similar type of chemotherapy.

## Support Groups

You can ease the stress of illness by joining a cancer support group. Sharing
with others who have common experiences and problems can help you not feel
alone.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Outcome varies, depending on the location of the tumor and whether the cancer
has spread. Cancer that is only in the kidney or ureterÂ may be cured with
surgery.

Cancer that has spread to other organs is usually not curable.

## Possible Complications

Complications from this cancer may include:

    * Kidney failure
    * Local spread of the tumor with increasing pain
    * Spread of the cancer to lung, liver, and bone

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your provider if you have any of the symptoms listed above.

## Prevention

Measures that may help prevent this cancer include:

    * Follow your provider's advice regarding medicines, including over-the-counter pain medicine.
    * Stop smoking.
    * Wear protective equipment if you are likely to be exposed to substances that are toxic to the kidneys.

## Alternative Names

Transitional cell cancer of the renal pelvis or ureter; Kidney cancer - renal
pelvis; Ureter cancer; Urothelial carcinoma

## Images

    * ![Kidney anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1101t.jpg)Kidney anatomy

## References

Bajorin DF. Tumors of the kidney, bladder, ureters, and renal pelvis. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 197.

National Cancer Institute website. Transitional cell cancer of the renal
pelvis and ureter treatment (PDQ) â health professional version.
www.cancer.gov/types/kidney/hp/transitional-cell-treatment-pdq. Updated
February 7, 2018. Accessed May 15, 2018.

Wong WW, Peterson JL, Tan WW, et al. Kidney and ureteral carcinoma. In:
Gunderson LL, Tepper JE, eds. _Clinical Radiation Oncology_. 4th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 56.

## Review Date 4/2/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Bladder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BladderCancerandDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bladder
Cancer _Read more_

![Kidney Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyCancer_thumb.jpg)Kidney
Cancer _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

