Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000486.htm    
                                Description: Bladder cancer is a cancer that starts in the bladder. The bladder is the body part that holds and releases urine. It is in the center of the lower abdomen.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bladder cancer

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000486.htm

# Bladder cancer

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Bladder cancer is a cancer that starts in the bladder. The bladder is the body
part that holds and releases urine. It is in the center of the lower abdomen.

## Causes

In the United States, bladder cancer often starts from the cells lining the
bladder. These cells are called transitional cells.

These tumors are classified by the way they grow:

    * Papillary tumors look like warts and are attached to a stalk.
    * Nonpapillary (sessile) tumors are flat. They are much less common. But they are more invasive and have a worse outcome.

The exact cause of bladder cancer is not known. But several things may make
you more likely to develop it:

    * Cigarette smoking -- Smoking greatly increases the risk of developing bladder cancer. Up to half of all bladder cancers in men and several in women may be caused by cigarette smoke.
    * Chemical exposure at work -- About 1 in 4 cases of bladder cancer is caused by coming into contact with cancer-causing chemicals at work. These chemicals are called carcinogens. Dye workers, rubber workers, aluminum workers, leather workers, truck drivers, and pesticide applicators are at the highest risk.
    * Chemotherapy -- The chemotherapy drug cyclophosphamide may increase the risk for bladder cancer.
    * Radiation treatment -- Women who had radiation therapy to treat cervical cancer have an increased risk of developing bladder cancer.
    * Bladder infection -- A long-term (chronic) bladder infection or irritation may lead to a certain type of bladder cancer.

Research has not shown clear evidence that using artificial sweeteners leads
to bladder cancer.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of bladder cancer can include:

    * Abdominal pain
    * Blood in the urine
    * Bone pain or tenderness if the cancer spreads to the bone
    * Fatigue
    * Painful urination
    * Urinary frequency and urgency
    * Urine leakage (incontinence)
    * Weight loss

Other diseases and conditions can cause similar symptoms. It is important to
see your health care provider to rule out all other possible causes.

## Exams and Tests

The provider will perform a physical examination, including a rectal and
pelvic exam.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Abdominal and pelvic CT scan
    * Abdominal MRI scan
    * Cystoscopy (examining the inside of the bladder with a camera), with biopsy
    * Intravenous pyelogram - IVP
    * Urinalysis
    * Urine cytology

If tests confirm you have bladder cancer, additional tests will be done to see
if the cancer has spread. This is called staging. Staging helps guide future
treatment and follow-up and gives you some idea of what to expect in the
future.

The TNM (tumor, nodes, metastatis) staging system is used to stage bladder
cancer:

    * Ta -- The cancer is in the lining of the bladder only and has not spread.
    * T1 -- The cancer goes through the bladder lining, but does not reach the bladder muscle.
    * T2 -- The cancer spreads to the bladder muscle.
    * T3 -- The cancer spreads past the bladder into the fatty tissue surrounding it.
    * T4 -- The cancer has spread to nearby structures such as the prostate gland, uterus, vagina, rectum, abdominal wall, or pelvic wall.

Tumors are also grouped based on how they appear under a microscope. This is
called grading the tumor. A high-grade tumor is fast growing and more likely
to spread. Bladder cancer can spread into nearby areas, including the:

    * Lymph nodes in the pelvis 
    * Bones 
    * Liver 
    * Lungs 

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the stage of the cancer, the severity of your symptoms,
and your overall health.

Stage 0 and I treatments:

    * Surgery to remove the tumor without removing the rest of the bladder 
    * Chemotherapy or immunotherapy placed directly into the bladder 

Stage II and III treatments:

    * Surgery to remove the entire bladder (radical cystectomy) and nearby lymph nodes 
    * Surgery to remove only part of the bladder, followed by radiation and chemotherapy 
    * Chemotherapy to shrink the tumor before surgery 
    * A combination of chemotherapy and radiation (in people who choose not to have surgery or who cannot have surgery) 

Most people with stage IV tumors cannot be cured and surgery is not
appropriate. In these people, chemotherapy is often considered.

CHEMOTHERAPY

Chemotherapy may be given to people with stage II and III disease either
before or after surgery to help prevent the tumor from returning.

For early disease (stages 0 and I), chemotherapy is usually given directly
into the bladder.

A Foley catheter can be used to deliver the medicine into the bladder in
advanced stages (II-IV) of bladder cancer (intravesically). Common side
effects include bladder wall irritation and pain when urinating.

IMMUNOTHERAPY

Bladder cancers are often treated with immunotherapy. In this treatment, a
medicine triggers your immune system to attack and kill the cancer cells.
Immunotherapy for bladder cancer is often performed using the Bacille
Calmette-Guerin vaccine (commonly known as BCG).

As with all treatments, side effects are possible. Ask your provider what side
effects you might expect, and what to do if they occur.

SURGERY

Surgery for bladder cancer includes:

    * Transurethral resection of the bladder (TURB) -- Cancerous bladder tissue is removed through the urethra.
    * Partial or complete removal of the bladder -- Many people with stage II or III bladder cancer may need to have their bladder removed (radical cystectomy). Sometimes, only part of the bladder is removed. Chemotherapy may be given before or after this surgery. 

Surgery may also be done to help your body drain urine after the bladder is
removed. This may include:

    * Ileal conduit -- A small urine reservoir is surgically created from a short piece of your small intestine. The ureters that drain urine from the kidneys are attached to one end of this piece. The other end is brought out through an opening in the skin (a stoma). The stoma allows the person to drain the collected urine out of the reservoir.
    * Continent urinary reservoir -- A pouch to collect urine is created inside your body using a piece of your intestine. You will need to insert a tube into an opening in your skin (stoma) into this pouch to drain the urine.
    * Orthotopic neobladder -- This surgery is becoming more common in people who have had their bladder removed. A part of your bowel is folded over to make a pouch that collects urine. It is attached to the place in the body where the urine normally empties from the bladder. This procedure allows you to maintain some normal urinary control. 

## Support Groups

You can ease the stress of illness by joining a cancer support group. Sharing
with others who have common experiences and problems can help you not feel
alone.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

After treatment for bladder cancer, you will be closely monitored by a doctor.
This may include:

    * CT scans to check for the spread or return of cancer
    * Monitoring symptoms that might suggest the disease is getting worse, such as fatigue, weight loss, increased pain, decreased bowel and bladder function, and weakness
    * Complete blood count (CBC) to monitor for anemia 
    * Bladder exams every 3 to 6 months after treatment 
    * Urinalysis if you did not have your bladder removed 

How well a person with bladder cancer does depends on the initial stage and
response to treatment of the bladder cancer.

The outlook for stage 0 or I cancers is fairly good. Although the risk for the
cancer returning is high, most bladder cancers that return can be surgically
removed and cured.

The cure rates for people with stage III tumors are less than 50%. People with
stage IV bladder cancer are rarely cured.

## Possible Complications

Bladder cancers may spread into the nearby organs. They may also travel
through the pelvic lymph nodes and spread to the liver, lungs, and bones.
Additional complications of bladder cancer include:

    * Anemia
    * Swelling of the ureters (hydronephrosis)
    * Urethral stricture
    * Urinary incontinence 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have blood in your urine or other symptoms of
bladder cancer, including:

    * Frequent urination
    * Painful urination
    * Urgent need to urinate 

## Prevention

If you smoke, quit. Smoking can increase your risk for bladder cancer. Avoid
exposure to chemicals linked to bladder cancer.

## Alternative Names

Transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder; Urothelial cancer

## Images

    * ![Cystoscopy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1089t.jpg)Cystoscopy
    * ![Female urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1122t.jpg)Female urinary tract
    * ![Male urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1123t.jpg)Male urinary tract

## References

National Cancer Institute website. Bladder cancer treatment (PDQ) - health
professional version.
www.cancer.gov/cancertopics/pdq/treatment/bladder/healthprofessional. Updated
March 9, 2018. Accessed March 26, 2018.

National Comprehensive Cancer Network website. NCCN clinical practice
guidelines in oncology (NCCN guidelines): Bladder cancer. Version 3.2018.
www.nccn.org/professionals/physician_gls/pdf/bladder.pdf. Accessed March 26,
2018.

Smith A, Balar AV, Milowsky MI, Chen RC. Bladder cancer. In: Niederhuber JE,
Armitage JO, Doroshow JH, Kastan MB, Tepper JE, eds. _Abeloff's Clinical
Oncology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 83.

Smith TG, Coburn M. Urologic surgery. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers
BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2017:chap 72.

## Review Date 1/19/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Bladder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BladderCancerandDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bladder
Cancer _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

