Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002858.htm    
                                Description: The black widow spider (Latrodectus genus) has a shiny black body with a red hourglass-shape on its belly area. The venomous bite of a black widow spider is toxic. The genus of spiders, to which the black    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Black widow spider

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002858.htm

# Black widow spider

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The black widow spider (Latrodectus genus) has a shiny black body with a red
hourglass-shape on its belly area. The venomous bite of a black widow spider
is toxic. The genus of spiders, to which the black widow belongs, contains the
largest number of venomous species known.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage a black
widow spider bite. If you or someone you are with is bitten, call your local
emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be reached
directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

The venom of the black widow spider contains toxic chemicals that make people
sick.

## Where Found

Black widows are found throughout the United States, mostly in the South and
West. They are usually found in barns, sheds, stone walls, fences, woodpiles,
porch furniture, and other outdoor structures.

This genus of spider species is found worldwide. They are most plentiful in
temperate and subtropical climates, especially during the summer months.

## Symptoms

The first symptom of a black widow bite is usually pain similar to a pinprick.
This is felt when the bite is made. Some people may not feel it. Minor
swelling, redness, and a target-shaped sore may appear.

After 15 minutes to 1 hour, a dull muscle pain spreads from the bite area to
the whole body.

    * If the bite is on the upper body, you will usually feel most of the pain in your chest.
    * If the bite is on your lower body, you will usually feel most of the pain in your abdomen. 

The following symptoms can also occur:

    * Anxiety
    * Difficulty breathing
    * Headache
    * High blood pressure
    * Increased saliva
    * Increased sweating
    * Light sensitivity
    * Muscle weakness
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Numbness and tingling around the bite site, then sometimes spreading out from the bite
    * Restlessness
    * Seizures (usually seen just before death in children who are bitten)
    * Very painful muscle cramps or spasms
    * Facial swelling in the hours after the bite. (This pattern of swelling is sometimes confused with an allergy to the drug used in treatment.) 

Pregnant women may have contractions and go into labor.

## Home Care

Black widow spider bites are very toxic. Seek medical help right away. Call
the Poison Control Center for guidance.

Follow these steps until medical help is given:

    * Clean the area with soap and water.
    * Wrap ice in a clean cloth and place it on the bite area. Leave it on for 10 minutes and then off for 10 minutes. Repeat this process. If the person has blood flow problems, decrease the time that the ice is on the area to prevent possible skin damage.
    * Keep the affected area still, if possible, to prevent the venom from spreading. A homemade splint may be helpful if the bite was on the arms, legs, hands, or feet.
    * Loosen clothing and remove rings and other tight jewelry.

## Before Calling Emergency

Have this information ready:

    * Person's age, weight, and condition
    * Time the bite occurred
    * Area on the body where the bite occurred
    * Type of spider, if possible 

## Poison Control

Your local poison center can be reached directly by calling the national toll-
free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.
They will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

If possible, bring the spider to the emergency room. Put it in a secure
container.

The health care provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs,
including temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure. The person
may receive:

    * Antivenin, a medicine to reverse the effects of the venom, if available
    * Blood and urine tests
    * Breathing support, including oxygen, tube through the mouth into the throat, and breathing machine (ventilator)
    * Chest x-rays, abdominal x-rays, or both
    * ECG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing)
    * Intravenous fluids (IV, or through a vein)
    * Medicines to treat symptoms 

In general, children, pregnant women, and older people may need to be given
Latrodectus antivenom to reverse the effect of the venom. However, it can
cause serious allergic reactions and must be used carefully.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Severe symptoms usually start to improve within 2 to 3 days, but milder
symptoms may last for several weeks. Death in a healthy person is very rare.
Young children, people who are very ill, and older people may not survive a
bite.

Wear protective clothing when traveling through areas where these spiders
live. DO NOT put your hands or feet in their nests or in their preferred
hiding places, such as dark, sheltered areas under logs or underbrush, or
other damp, moist areas.

## Images

    * ![Arthropods - basic features](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1235t.jpg)Arthropods - basic features
    * ![Arachnids - basic features](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1236t.jpg)Arachnids - basic features
    * ![Black widow spider](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1237t.jpg)Black widow spider

## References

Boyer LV, Binford GJ, Degan JA. Spider bites. In: Auerbach PS, Cushing TA,
Harris NS, eds. _Auerbach's Wilderness Medicine_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 43.

James WD, Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach MA, Neuhaus IM. Parasitic
infestations, stings, and bites. In: James WD, Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach
MA, Neuhaus IM, eds. _Andrews' Diseases of the Skin: Clinical Dermatology_.
13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 20

Otten EJ. Venomous animal injuries. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 55.

## Review Date 6/30/2019

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Spider Bites](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SpiderBites_thumb.jpg)Spider
Bites _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

