Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002855.htm    
                                Description: This article describes the effects of a tarantula spider bite or contact with tarantula hairs. The class of insects contains the largest number of venomous species known.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Tarantula spider bite

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002855.htm

# Tarantula spider bite

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

This article describes the effects of a tarantula spider bite or contact with
tarantula hairs. The class of insects contains the largest number of venomous
species known.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage a
tarantula spider bite. If you or someone you are with is bitten, call your
local emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be
reached directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

The venom of tarantulas found in the United States is not considered
dangerous, but it may cause allergic reactions.

## Where Found

Tarantulas are found across the southern and southwestern regions of the
United States. Some people keep them as pets. As a group, they are found
mainly in tropical and subtropical areas.

## Symptoms

If a tarantula bites you, you may have pain at the site of the bite similar to
a bee sting. The area of the bite may become warm and red. When one of these
spiders is threatened, it rubs its hind legs across its own body surface and
flicks thousands of tiny hairs toward the threat.. These hairs have barbs that
can pierce human skin. This causes causing swollen, itchy bumps to form.
Itching may last for weeks.

If you are allergic to tarantula venom, these symptoms may occur:

    * Breathing difficulty
    * Loss of blood flow to major organs (an extreme reaction)
    * Eyelid puffiness
    * Itchiness
    * Low blood pressure and collapse (shock)
    * Rapid heart rate
    * Skin rash
    * Swelling at the site of the bite
    * Swelling of the lips and throat 

## Home Care

Seek medical help right away.

Wash the area with soap and water. Place ice (wrapped in a clean cloth or
other covering) on the site of the sting for 10 minutes and then off for 10
minutes. Repeat this process. If the person has blood flow problems, reduce
the time the ice is used to prevent possible skin damage.

## Before Calling Emergency

Have this information ready:

    * Person's age, weight, and condition
    * Type of spider, if possible
    * Time of the bite
    * Area of the body that was bitten 

## Poison Control

Your local poison center can be reached directly by calling the national toll-
free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.
They will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

They will tell you if you should take the person to the hospital.

If possible, bring the spider to the emergency room for identification.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

The health care provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs,
including temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure. The wound
and symptoms will be treated.

The person may receive:

    * Blood and urine tests
    * Breathing support, including oxygen, a tube through the mouth into the throat, and a breathing machine in serious cases.
    * Chest x-ray
    * ECG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing)
    * Intravenous fluids (IV, or through a vein)
    * Medicines to treat symptoms 

Any of the tiny hairs that remain on the skin can be removed with sticky tape.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Recovery most often takes about a week. Death from a tarantula spider bite in
a healthy person is rare.

## Images

    * ![Arthropods - basic features](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1235t.jpg)Arthropods - basic features
    * ![Arachnids - basic features](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1236t.jpg)Arachnids - basic features

## References

Boyer LV, Binford GJ, Degan JA. Spider bites. In: Auerbach PS, Cushing TA,
Harris NS, eds. _Aurebach's Wilderness Medicine_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 43.

Otten EJ. Venomous animal injuries. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 55.

## Review Date 6/30/2019

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Spider Bites](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SpiderBites_thumb.jpg)Spider
Bites _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

