Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002859.htm    
                                Description: Brown recluse spiders are between 1 and 1 1/2 inches (2.5 to 3.5 centimeters) long. They have a dark brown, violin-shaped mark on their upper body and light brown legs. Their lower body may be dark brown,    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Brown recluse spider

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002859.htm

# Brown recluse spider

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Brown recluse spiders are between 1 and 1 1/2 inches (2.5 to 3.5 centimeters)
long. They have a dark brown, violin-shaped mark on their upper body and light
brown legs. Their lower body may be dark brown, tan, yellow, or greenish. They
also have 3 pairs of eyes, instead of the usual 4 pairs other spiders have.
The bite of a brown recluse spider is venomous.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage a brown
recluse spider bite. If you or someone you are with is bitten, call your local
emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be reached
directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

The venom of the brown recluse spider contains toxic chemicals that make
people sick.

## Where Found

The brown recluse spider is most common in the south and central states of the
United States, especially in Missouri, Kansas, Arkansas, Louisiana, eastern
Texas, and Oklahoma. However, they have been found in several large cities
outside these areas.

The brown recluse spider prefers dark, sheltered areas, such as under porches
and in woodpiles.

## Symptoms

When the spider bites you, you may feel a sharp sting or nothing at all. Pain
usually develops within the first several hours after being bitten, and may
become severe. Children may have more serious reactions.

Symptoms may include:

    * Chills
    * Itching
    * General ill-feeling or discomfort
    * Fever
    * Nausea
    * Reddish or purplish color in a circle around bite
    * Sweating
    * Large sore (ulcer) in the area of the bite 

Rarely, these symptoms may occur:

    * Coma (lack of responsiveness)
    * Blood in urine
    * Yellowing of the skin and whites of the eyes (jaundice)
    * Kidney failure
    * Seizures 

In serious cases, blood supply is cut off from the area of the bite. This
results in black tissue scarring (eschar) at the site. The eschar sloughs off
after about 2 to 5 weeks, leaving an ulcer through skin and fatty tissue. The
ulcer may take many months to heal and leave a deep scar.

## Home Care

Seek emergency medical treatment right away. Call 911 or the local emergency
number, or poison control.

Follow these steps until medical help is given:

    * Clean the area with soap and water.
    * Wrap ice in a clean cloth and place it on the bite area. Leave it on for 10 minutes and then off for 10 minutes. Repeat this process. If the person has blood flow problems, decrease the time that the ice is on the area to prevent possible skin damage.
    * Keep the affected area still, if possible, to prevent the venom from spreading. A homemade splint may be helpful if the bite was on the arms, legs, hands, or feet.
    * Loosen clothing and remove rings and other tight jewelry.

## Before Calling Emergency

Have this information ready:

    * Person's age, weight, and condition
    * The body part affected
    * The time the bite occurred
    * The type of spider, if known

Take the person to the emergency room for treatment. The bite may not look
serious, but it can take some time to become severe. Treatment is important to
reduce complications. If possible, place the spider in a secure container and
bring it to the emergency room for identification.

## Poison Control

Your local poison center can be reached directly by calling the national toll-
free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.
This hotline number will let you talk to experts in poisoning, including
insect bites. They will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

Take the spider to the hospital with you, if possible. Make sure it is in a
secure container.

The health care provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs,
including temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure.

Symptoms will be treated. Because brown recluse spider bites can be painful,
pain medicines may be given. Antibiotics may also be prescribed if the wound
is infected.

If the wound is near a joint (such as a knee or elbow), the arm or leg may be
placed into a brace or sling. If possible, the arm or leg will be elevated.

In more serious reactions, the person may receive:

    * Blood and urine tests
    * Breathing support, including oxygen, tube through the mouth into the throat, and breathing machine (ventilator)
    * Chest x-ray
    * ECG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing)
    * Intravenous fluids (IV, or through a vein)
    * Medicines to treat symptoms 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

With proper medical attention, survival past 48 hours is usually a sign that
recovery will follow. Even with appropriate and quick treatment, symptoms may
last for several days to weeks. The original bite, which may be small, may
progress to a blood blister and look like a bull's eye. It may then become
deeper, and additional symptoms such as fever, chills, and other signs of
additional organ system involvement may develop. If scarring from an ulcer has
developed, surgery may be needed to improve the appearance of the scar formed
at the site of the bite.

Death from brown recluse spider bites is more common in children than adults.

Wear protective clothing when traveling through areas where these spiders
live. DO NOT put your hands or feet in their nests or in their preferred
hiding places, such as dark, sheltered areas under logs or underbrush, or
other damp, moist areas.

## Alternative Names

Loxosceles reclusa

## Images

    * ![Arthropods - basic features](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1235t.jpg)Arthropods - basic features
    * ![Arachnids - basic features](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1236t.jpg)Arachnids - basic features
    * ![Brown recluse spider bite on the hand](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/3070t.jpg)Brown recluse spider bite on the hand

## References

Boyer LV, Binford GJ, Degan JA. Spider bites. In: Auerbach PS, Cushing TA,
Harris NS, eds. _Aurebach's Wilderness Medicine_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 43.

James WD, Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach MA, Neuhaus IM. Parasitic
infestations, stings, and bites. In: James WD, Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach
MA, Neuhaus IM, eds. _Andrews' Diseases of the Skin: Clinical Dermatology_.
13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 20.

Otten EJ. Venomous animal injuries. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 55.

## Review Date 6/30/2019

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Spider Bites](https://medlineplus.gov/images/SpiderBites_thumb.jpg)Spider
Bites _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

