Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000187.htm    
                                Description: You are having radiation therapy. This is treatment that uses high-powered x-rays or particles to kill cancer cells. You may receive radiation therapy by itself or also have other treatments (such as surgery    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Radiation therapy - questions to ask your doctor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000187.htm

# Radiation therapy - questions to ask your doctor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You are having radiation therapy. This is treatment that uses high-powered
x-rays or particles to kill cancer cells. You may receive radiation therapy by
itself or also have other treatments (such as surgery or chemotherapy) at the
same time. Your health care provider may need to follow you closely while you
are having radiation therapy. You will also need to learn how to care for
yourself during this time.

Below are questions you may want to ask your doctor.

## Questions

Do I need someone to bring me in and pick me up after the radiation
treatments?

What are the known side effects?

    * How soon after starting my radiation will I experience side effects? 

What will my skin look like after radiation treatments? How should I take care
of my skin?

    * When can I put creams or lotions on it?
    * Will I have skin sores? How should I treat them?
    * Can I remove the marks on my skin that the doctor or technician made?
    * Will my skin hurt? 

Can I go out in the sun?

    * Should I use sunscreen?
    * Do I need to stay indoors during cold weather? 

Am I at risk for infections?

    * What foods should I not eat so that I do not get an infection?
    * Is my water at home OK to drink? Are there places I should not drink the water?
    * Can I go swimming?
    * What should I do when I go to a restaurant?
    * Can I be around pets?
    * What immunizations do I need? Which immunizations should I stay away from?
    * Is it OK to be in a crowd of people? Do I have to wear a mask?
    * Can I have visitors over? Do they need to wear a mask?
    * When should I wash my hands?
    * When should I take my temperature at home? 

Am I at risk of bleeding?

    * Is it OK to shave?
    * What should I do if I cut myself or start bleeding? 

Are there any medicines I should not take?

    * Are there any other medicines I should keep on hand?
    * Are there any vitamins and supplements I should or should not take?
    * What over-the-counter (OTC) medicines am I allowed to take? 

Do I need to use birth control?

Will I be sick to my stomach or have loose stools or diarrhea?

    * How long after I start radiation treatment might these problems start?
    * What can I do if I am sick to my stomach or have diarrhea often?
    * What should I be eating to keep my weight and strength up?
    * Are there any foods I should avoid?
    * Am I allowed to drink alcohol? 

Will my hair fall out? Is there anything I can do about it?

Will I have problems thinking or remembering things? Can I do anything that
might help?

How should I take care of my mouth and lips?

    * How can I prevent mouth sores?
    * How often should I brush my teeth? What type of toothpaste should I use?
    * What can I do about dry mouth?
    * What should I do if I have a mouth sore? 

What can I do about my fatigue?

When should I call the doctor?

## Alternative Names

What to ask your doctor about radiation therapy

## References

American Cancer Society website. Radiation therapy.
www.cancer.org/treatment/treatments-and-side-effects/treatment-
types/radiation.html. Updated July 2, 2018. Accessed November 12, 2018.

National Cancer Institute website. Radiation therapy and you: support for
people with cancer. www.cancer.gov/publications/patient-
education/radiationttherapy.pdf. Updated October 2016. Accessed November 12,
2018.

Zeman EM, Schreiber EC, Tepper JE. Basics of radiation therapy. In:
Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Doroshow JH, Kastan MB, Tepper JE, eds.
_Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2014:chap 27.

## Read More

    * Brain tumor - children
    * Brain tumor - primary - adults
    * Breast cancer
    * Colorectal cancer
    * Hodgkin lymphoma
    * Lung cancer - small cell
    * Metastatic brain tumor
    * Non-Hodgkin lymphoma
    * Prostate cancer
    * Testicular cancer

## Patient Instructions

    * Abdominal radiation - discharge
    * Bleeding during cancer treatment
    * Brain radiation - discharge
    * Breast radiation - discharge
    * Chest radiation - discharge
    * Dry mouth during cancer treatment
    * Eating extra calories when sick - adults
    * Mouth and neck radiation - discharge
    * Oral mucositis - self-care
    * Pelvic radiation - discharge

## Review Date 10/14/2018

Updated by: David Herold, MD, Radiation Oncologist in Jupiter, FL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Radiation Therapy

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

