Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000300.htm    
                                Description: Radiation enteritis is damage to the lining of the intestines (bowels) caused by radiation therapy, which is a type of cancer treatment.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Radiation enteritis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000300.htm

# Radiation enteritis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Radiation enteritis is damage to the lining of the intestines (bowels) caused
by radiation therapy, which is a type of cancer treatment.

## Causes

Radiation therapy uses high-powered x-rays, particles, or radioactive seeds to
kill cancer cells. The therapy may also damage healthy cells in the lining of
the intestines.

People who have radiation therapy to the belly or pelvic area are at risk.
These may include people with cervical, pancreatic, prostate, uterine, or
colon and rectal cancer.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may vary, depending on which part of the intestines received the
radiation. Symptoms can be worse if:

    * You have chemotherapy at the same time as the radiation.
    * You receive stronger doses of radiation.
    * A larger area of your intestines receives radiation.

Symptoms may occur during or shortly after or long after radiation treatment.

Changes in bowel movements may include:

    * Bleeding or mucus from the rectum
    * Diarrhea or watery stools
    * Feeling the need to have a bowel movement most or all of the time
    * Pain in the rectal area, especially during bowel movements 

Other symptoms can include:

    * Loss of appetite
    * Nausea and vomiting 

Most of the time, these symptoms get better within 2 to 3 months after
radiation treatment ends. However, the condition may occur months or years
after radiation therapy.

When symptoms become long-term (chronic), other problems may include:

    * Abdominal pain
    * Bloody diarrhea
    * Greasy or fatty stools
    * Weight loss 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will do a physical exam and ask about your medical
history.

Tests may include:

    * Barium x-ray examination
    * Sigmoidoscopy or colonoscopy
    * Upper endoscopy

## Treatment

Starting a low-fiber diet on the first day of radiation treatment may help you
avoid problems. The best choice of foods depends on your symptoms.

Some things can make symptoms worse, and should be avoided. These include:

    * Alcohol and tobacco
    * Almost all milk products
    * Coffee, tea, chocolate, and sodas with caffeine
    * Foods containing whole bran
    * Fresh and dried fruits
    * Fried, greasy, or fatty foods
    * Nuts and seeds
    * Popcorn, potato chips, and pretzels
    * Raw vegetables
    * Rich pastries and baked goods
    * Some fruit juices
    * Strong spices 

Foods and drinks that are better choices include:

    * Apple or grape juice
    * Applesauce, peeled apples, and bananas
    * Eggs, buttermilk, and yogurt
    * Fish, poultry, and meat that has been broiled or roasted
    * Mild, cooked vegetables, such as asparagus tips, green or black beans, carrots, spinach, and squash
    * Potatoes that have been baked, boiled, or mashed
    * Processed cheeses, such as American cheese
    * Smooth peanut butter
    * White bread, macaroni, or noodles 

Your provider may have you use certain medicines such as:

    * Drugs that help decrease diarrhea, such as loperamide
    * Pain medicines
    * Steroid foam that coats the lining of the rectum
    * Special enzymes to replace enzymes from the pancreas 

Other things you can do include:

    * Eat foods at room temperature.
    * Eat small meals more often.
    * Drink plenty of fluids, up to 12 8-ounce (240 milliter) glasses every day when you have diarrhea. Some people will need fluids given through a vein (intravenous fluids).

Your provider may choose to decrease your radiation for a short period of
time.

There often are no good treatments for chronic radiation enteritis that is
more severe.

    * Medicines such as cholestyramine, diphenoxylate-atropine, loperamide, or sucralfate may help.
    * You may need to consider surgery to either remove or go around (bypass) a section of damaged intestine.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

When the abdomen receives radiation, there is always some nausea, vomiting,
and diarrhea. In most cases, the symptoms get better within 2 to 3Â months
after treatment ends.

However, when this condition develops, symptoms may last for a long period of
time. Long-term (chronic) enteritis is rarely curable.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Bleeding and anemia
    * Dehydration
    * Iron deficiency
    * Malabsorption
    * Malnutrition
    * Weight loss 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you are having radiation therapy or have had it in the
past and are having a lot of diarrhea or stomach pain and cramping.

## Alternative Names

Radiation enteropathy; Radiation-induced small bowel injury; Post-radiation
enteritis

## Images

    * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
    * ![Digestive system organs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8710t.jpg)Digestive system organs

## References

Kuemmerle JF. Inflammatory and anatomic diseases of the intestine, peritoneum,
mesentery, and omentum. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 142.

Palta M, Willet CG, Czito BG. Radiation injury. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS,
Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver
Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 40.

National Cancer Institute. Gastrointestinal complications PDQ.
www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/side-effects/constipation/GI-
complications-pdq. Updated March 2, 2018. Accessed July 2, 2018.

## Review Date 4/7/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Colorectal
Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ColorectalCancer_thumb.jpg)Colorectal
Cancer _Read more_

![Digestive
System](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DigestiveDiseasesandIntestinalCancer_thumb.jpg)Intestinal
Cancer _Read more_

![Mesothelioma](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Mesothelioma_thumb.jpg)Mesothelioma
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

