Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000054.htm    
                                Description: When you have radiation treatment for cancer, your body goes through changes. Follow your health care provider    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Abdominal radiation - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000054.htm

# Abdominal radiation - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

When you have radiation treatment for cancer, your body goes through changes.
Follow your health care provider's instructions on how to care for yourself at
home. Use the information below as a reminder.

## What to Expect at Home

About 2 weeks after radiation treatment starts, you might notice changes in
your skin. Most of these symptoms go away after your treatments have stopped.

    * Your skin and mouth may turn red.
    * Your skin might start to peel or get dark.
    * Your skin may itch. 

Your body hair will fall out after about 2 weeks, but only in the area being
treated. When your hair grows back, it may be different than before.

Around the second or third week after radiation treatments start, you may
have:

    * Diarrhea
    * Cramping in your belly
    * An upset stomach 

## Skin Care

When you have radiation treatment, color markings are drawn on your skin. DO
NOT remove them. These show where to aim the radiation. If they come off, DO
NOT redraw them. Tell your provider instead.

To take care of the treatment area:

    * Wash gently with lukewarm water only. Don't scrub.
    * Use a mild soap that doesn't dry out your skin.
    * Pat your skin dry.
    * Don't use lotions, ointments, makeup, perfumed powders or products on the treatment area. Ask your provider what you should use.
    * Keep the area that is being treated out of the direct sun.
    * Don't scratch or rub your skin.
    * Don't put a heating pad or an ice bag on the treatment area. 

Tell your provider if you have any break or opening in your skin.

## Other Self-care

Wear loose-fitting clothing around your stomach and pelvis.

You will likely feel tired after a few weeks. If so:

    * Don't try to do too much. You probably will not be able to do everything you used to.
    * Try to get more sleep at night. Rest during the day when you can.
    * Take a few weeks off work, or work less.

Ask your provider before taking any drugs or other remedies for an upset
stomach.

Don't eat for 4 hours before your treatment. If your stomach feels upset just
before your treatment:

    * Try a bland snack, such as toast or crackers and apple juice.
    * Try to relax. Read, listen to music, or do a crossword puzzle.

If your stomach is upset right after radiation treatment:

    * Wait 1 to 2 hours after your treatment before eating.
    * Your doctor may prescribe medicines to help.

For an upset stomach:

    * Stay on the special diet that your doctor or dietitian recommends for you.
    * Eat small meals and eat more often during the day.
    * Eat and drink slowly.
    * Don't eat foods that are fried or are high in fat.
    * Drink cool liquids between meals.
    * Eat foods that are cool or at room temperature, instead of warm or hot. Cooler foods will smell less.
    * Choose foods with a mild odor.
    * Try a clear, liquid diet -- water, weak tea, apple juice, peach nectar, clear broth, and plain Jell-O.
    * Eat bland food, such as dry toast or Jell-O.

To help with diarrhea:

    * Try a clear, liquid diet.
    * Don't eat raw fruits and vegetables and other high-fiber foods, coffee, beans, cabbage, whole grain breads and cereals, sweets, or spicy foods.
    * Eat and drink slowly.
    * Don't drink milk or eat any other dairy products if they bother your bowels.
    * When the diarrhea starts to improve, eat small amounts of low-fiber foods, such as white rice, bananas, applesauce, mashed potatoes, low-fat cottage cheese, and dry toast.
    * Eat foods that are high in potassium (bananas, potatoes, and apricots) when you have diarrhea.

Eat enough protein and calories to keep your weight up.

## Follow-up Care

Your provider may check your blood counts regularly, especially if the
radiation treatment area is large.

## Alternative Names

Radiation - abdomen - discharge; Cancer - abdominal radiation; Lymphoma -
abdominal radiation

## References

Doroshow JH. Approach to the patient with cancer. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI,
eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 179.

National Cancer Institute website. Radiation therapy and you: support for
people with cancer. www.cancer.gov/publications/patient-
education/radiationttherapy.pdf. Updated October 2016. Accessed February 27,
2018.

## Read More

    * Colorectal cancer
    * Ovarian cancer

## Patient Instructions

    * Diarrhea - what to ask your doctor - child 
    * Diarrhea - what to ask your health care provider - adult
    * Drinking water safely during cancer treatment
    * Dry mouth during cancer treatment
    * Eating extra calories when sick - adults
    * Radiation therapy - questions to ask your doctor
    * Safe eating during cancer treatment
    * When you have diarrhea
    * When you have nausea and vomiting

## Review Date 1/31/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Colorectal Cancer
    * Intestinal Cancer
    * Mesothelioma
    * Ovarian Cancer
    * Radiation Therapy
    * Stomach Cancer
    * Uterine Cancer

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

