Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000735.htm    
                                Description: When you have radiation treatment for cancer, you may have some changes in your skin in the area being treated. Your skin may turn red, peel, or itch. You should treat your skin with care while receiving    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Radiation therapy - skin care

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000735.htm

# Radiation therapy - skin care

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

When you have radiation treatment for cancer, you may have some changes in
your skin in the area being treated. Your skin may turn red, peel, or itch.
You should treat your skin with care while receiving radiation therapy.

## Causes

External radiation therapy uses high-powered x-rays or particles to kill
cancer cells. The rays or particles are aimed directly at the tumor from
outside of the body. Radiation therapy also damages or kills healthy cells.
During treatment, skin cells do not have enough time to grow back between
radiation sessions. This causes side effects.

## Skin Side Effects

Side effects depend on the dose of radiation, how often you have the therapy,
and the part of your body the radiation is focused on, such as:

    * Abdomen
    * Brain
    * Breast
    * Chest
    * Mouth and neck
    * Pelvis (between the hips)
    * Prostate
    * Skin

Two weeks or so after radiation treatment starts, you may notice skin changes
such as:

    * Red or "sun burned" skin
    * Darkened skin
    * Itching
    * Bumps, rash
    * Peeling
    * Hair loss in the area being treated
    * Thinning or thickening of skin
    * Soreness or swelling of the area
    * Sensitivity or numbness
    * Skin sores

Most of these symptoms will go away after your treatments have stopped.
However, your skin may remain darker, drier, and more sensitive to the sun.
When your hair grows back, it may be different than before.

## Skin Care

When you have radiation treatment, a health care provider tattoos small
permanent marks on your skin. These indicate where to aim the radiation.

Take care of the skin in the treatment area.

    * Wash gently with a mild soap and lukewarm water only. Don't scrub. Pat your skin dry.
    * Don't use lotions, ointments, makeup, or perfumed powders or products. They can irritate skin or interfere with treatment. Ask your provider what products you can use and when.
    * If you normally shave the treatment area, only use an electric razor. Don't use shaving products.
    * Don't scratch or rub your skin.
    * Wear loose-fitting, soft fabrics next to your skin, such as cotton. Avoid tight-fitting clothes and rough fabrics like wool.
    * Don't use bandages or adhesive tape on the area.
    * If you are being treated for breast cancer, do not wear a bra, or wear a loose-fitting bra with no underwire. Ask your provider about wearing your breast prosthesis, if you have one.
    * Don't use heating pads or cold packs on the skin.
    * Ask your provider if it's OK to swim in pools, salt water, lakes, or ponds. 

Keep the treatment area out of direct sunlight while undergoing treatment.

    * Wear clothes that protects you from the sun, such as a hat with a broad brim, a shirt with long sleeves, and long pants.
    * Use sunscreen. 

The treated area will be more sensitive to the sun. You will also be more at
risk for skin cancer in that area. Tell your provider if you have skin changes
and any break or openings in your skin.

## References

Doroshow JH. Approach to the patient with cancer. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI,
eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 179.

National Cancer Institute website. Radiation therapy and you: support for
people with cancer. www.cancer.gov/publications/patient-
education/radiationttherapy.pdf. Updated October 2016. Accessed June 1, 2018.

Zeman EM, Schreiber EC, Tepper JE. Basics of radiation therapy. In:
Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Doroshow JH, Kastan MB, Tepper JE, eds.
_Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2014:chap 27.

## Review Date 5/18/2018

Updated by: David Herold, MD, Radiation Oncologist in West Palm Beach, FL.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Radiation Therapy

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

