Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001918.htm    
                                Description: Radiation therapy uses high-powered x-rays, particles, or radioactive seeds to kill cancer cells.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Radiation therapy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001918.htm

# Radiation therapy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Radiation therapy uses high-powered x-rays, particles, or radioactive seeds to
kill cancer cells.

## Information

Cancer cells multiply faster than normal cells in the body. Because radiation
is most harmful toÂ quickly growing cells, radiation therapy damages cancer
cells more than normal cells. This prevents the cancer cells from growing and
dividing, and leads to cell death.

Radiation therapy is used to fight many types of cancer. Sometimes, radiation
is the only treatment needed. It may also be used in combination with other
therapies such as surgery or chemotherapy to:

    * Shrink a tumor as much as possible before surgery
    * Help prevent the cancer from coming back after surgery or chemotherapy
    * Relieve symptoms caused by a tumor, such as pain, pressure, or bleeding
    * Treat cancers that cannot be removed with surgery 

TYPES OF RADIATION THERAPY

Different types of radiation therapy include external, internal, and
intraoperative.

EXTERNAL RADIATION THERAPY

External radiation is the most common form. This method carefully aims high-
powered x-rays or particles directly at the tumor from outside of the body.
Newer methods provide more effective treatment with less tissue damage. These
include:

    * Intensity-modulated radiotherapy (IMRT)
    * Image-guided radiotherapy (IGRT)
    * Stereotactic radiotherapyÂ (radiosurgery)  

Proton therapy is another kind of radiation used to treat cancer. Rather than
using x-rays to destroy cancer cells, proton therapy uses a beam of special
particles called protons. Because it causes less damage to healthy tissue,
proton therapy is often used for cancers that are very close to critical parts
of the body. It is only used for certain types of cancer.

INTERNAL RADIATION THERAPY

Internal beam radiation is placed inside your body.

    * One method uses radioactive seeds that are placed directly into or near the tumor. This method is called brachytherapy, and is used to treat prostate cancer. It is used less often to treat breast, cervical, lung, and other cancers.
    * Another method involves receiving radiation by drinking it, swallowing a pill, or through an IV. Liquid radiation travels throughout your body, seeking out and killing cancer cells. Thyroid cancer may be treated this way. 

INTRAOPERTIVE RADIATION THERAPY (IORT)

This type of radiation is usually used during surgery to remove a tumor. Right
after the tumor is removed and before the surgeon closes the incision,
radiation is delivered to the site where the tumor used to be. IORT is
generally used for tumors that have not spread and microscopic tumor cells may
remain after the larger tumor is removed.

Compared with external radiation, advantages ofÂ IORT may include:

    * Only the tumor area is targeted so there is less harm to healthy tissue
    * Only a single dose of radiation is given
    * Delivers a smaller dose of radiationÂ Â 

SIDE EFFECTS OF RADIATION THERAPY

Radiation therapy can also damage or kill healthy cells. The death of healthy
cells can lead to side effects.

These side effects depend on the dose of radiation, and how often you have the
therapy. External beam radiation may cause skin changes, such as hair loss,
red or burning skin, thinning of skin tissue, or even shedding of the outer
layer of skin.

Other side effects depend on the part of body receiving radiation:

    * Abdomen
    * Brain
    * Breast
    * Chest
    * Mouth and neck
    * Pelvic (between the hips)
    * Prostate

## Alternative Names

Radiotherapy; Cancer - radiation therapy; Radiation therapy - radioactive
seeds; Intensity-modulated radiotherapy (IMRT); Image-guided radiotherapy
(IGRT); Radiosurgery-radiation therapy; Stereotactic radiotherapy
(SRT)-radiation therapy; Stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT)-radiation
therapy; Intraoperative radiotherapy; Proton radiotherapy-radiation therapy

## Patient Instructions

    * Stereotactic radiosurgery - discharge 

## Images

    * ![Radiation therapy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9805t.jpg)Radiation therapy

## References

Czito BG, Calvo FA, Haddock MG, Palta M, Willett CG. Intraoperative
irradiation. In: Gunderson LL, Tepper JE, eds. _Gunderson and Tepper: Clinical
Radiation Oncology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 17.

Doroshow JH. Approach to the patient with cancer. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI,
eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 179.

National Cancer Institute website. Radiation therapy and you: support for
people who have cancer. www.cancer.gov/cancertopics/coping/radiation-therapy-
and-you. Updated October 2016. Accessed June 1, 2018.

Zeman EM, Schreiber EC, Tepper JE. Basics of radiation therapy. In:
Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Doroshow JH, Kastan MB, Tepper JE, eds.
_Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill
Livingstone; 2014:chap 27.

## Review Date 5/18/2018

Updated by: David Herold, MD, radiation oncologist in West Palm Beach, FL.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Radiation
Therapy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/RadiationTherapy2_thumb.jpg)Radiation
Therapy _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

