Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007274.htm    
                                Description: Stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) is a form of radiation therapy that focuses high-power energy on a small area of the body. Despite its name, radiosurgery is a treatment, not a surgical procedure. Incisions    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Stereotactic radiosurgery - CyberKnife

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007274.htm

# Stereotactic radiosurgery - CyberKnife

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) is a form of radiation therapy that focuses
high-power energy on a small area of the body. Despite its name, radiosurgery
is a treatment, not a surgical procedure. Incisions (cuts) are not made on
your body.

More than one type of machine and system can be used to perform radiosurgery.
This article is about radiosurgery using the system called CyberKnife.

## Description

SRS targets and treats an abnormal area. The radiation is tightly focused,
which minimizes damage to nearby healthy tissue.

During treatment:

    * You won't need to be put to sleep. The treatment does not cause pain.
    * You lie on a table that slides into a machine that delivers radiation.
    * A robotic arm controlled by a computer moves around you. It focuses radiation exactly on the area being treated.
    * The health care providers are in another room. They can see you on cameras and hear you and talk with you on microphones. 

Each treatment takes about 30 minutes to 2 hours. You may receive more than
one treatment session, but usually no more than five sessions.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

SRS is more likely to be recommended for people who are too high risk for
conventional surgery. This may be due to age or other health problems. SRS may
be recommended because the area to be treated is too close to vital structures
inside the body.

CyberKnife is often used to slow the growth of or completely destroy small,
deep brain tumors that are hard to remove during conventional surgery.

Tumors of the brain and nervous system that can be treated using CyberKnife
include:

    * Cancer that has spread (metastasized) to the brain from another part of the body
    * A slow-growing tumor of the nerve that connects the ear to the brain (acoustic neuroma)
    * Pituitary tumors
    * Spinal cord tumors 

Other cancers that can be treated include:

    * Breast
    * Kidney
    * Liver
    * Lung
    * Pancreas
    * Prostate
    * A type of skin cancer (melanoma) that involves the eye 

Other medical problems treated with CyberKnife are:

    * Blood vessel problems such as arteriovenous malformations
    * Parkinson disease
    * Severe tremors (shaking)
    * Some types of epilepsy
    * Trigeminal neuralgia (severe nerve pain of the face) 

## Risks

SRS may damage tissue around the area being treated. As compared to other
types of radiation therapy, CyberKnife treatment is much less likely to damage
nearby healthy tissue.

Brain swelling may occur in people who receive treatment to the brain.
Swelling usually goes away without treatment. But some people may need
medicines to control this swelling. In rare cases, surgery with incisions
(open surgery) is needed to treat the brain swelling caused by the radiation.

## Before the Procedure

Before the treatment, you will have MRI or CT scans. These images help your
doctor determine the specific treatment area.

The day before your procedure:

    * Do not use any hair cream or hair spray if CyberKnife surgery involves your brain.
    * Do not eat or drink anything after midnight unless told otherwise by your doctor. 

The day of your procedure:

    * Wear comfortable clothes.
    * Bring your regular prescription medicines with you to the hospital.
    * Do not wear jewelry, makeup, nail polish, or a wig or hairpiece.
    * You will be asked to remove contact lenses, eyeglasses, and dentures.
    * You will change into a hospital gown.
    * An intravenous (lV) line will be placed into your arm to deliver contrast material, medicines, and fluids. 

## After the Procedure

Often, you can go home about 1 hour after the treatment. Arrange ahead of time
for someone to drive you home. You can go back to your regular activities the
next day if there are no complications, such as swelling. If you have
complications, you may need to stay in the hospital overnight for monitoring.

Follow instructions for how to care for yourself at home.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The effects of CyberKnife treatment may take weeks or months to be seen.
Prognosis depends on the condition being treated. Your provider will likely
monitor your progress using imaging tests such as MRI and CT scans.

## Alternative Names

Stereotactic radiotherapy; SRT; Stereotactic body radiotherapy; SBRT;
Fractionated stereotactic radiotherapy; SRS; CyberKnife; CyberKnife
radiosurgery; Non-invasive neurosurgery; Brain tumor - CyberKnife; Brain
cancer - CyberKnife; Brain metastases - CyberKnife; Parkinson - CyberKnife;
Epilepsy - CyberKnife; Tremor - CyberKnife

## Patient Instructions

    * Epilepsy in adults - what to ask your doctor
    * Epilepsy in children - discharge
    * Epilepsy in children - what to ask your doctor
    * Epilepsy or seizures - discharge 
    * Stereotactic radiosurgery - discharge 

## References

Accuray Incorporated website. CyberKnife Accuray general information,
treatment overview. cyberknife.com/treatment/overview/general. Accessed June
1, 2018.

Linskey ME, Kuo JV. General and historical considerations of radiotherapy and
radiosurgery. In: Winn HR, ed. _Youmans and Winn Neurological Surgery_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 261.

Welling DB, Spear SA, Packer MD. Stereotactic radiation treatment of benign
tumors of the cranial base. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds.
_Cummings Otolaryngology: Head and Neck Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 179.

## Review Date 5/18/2018

Updated by: David Herold, MD, radiation oncologist in West Palm Beach, FL.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Radiation
Therapy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/RadiationTherapy2_thumb.jpg)Radiation
Therapy _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

