Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000058.htm    
                                Description: When you have radiation treatment for cancer, your body goes through changes. Follow your health care provider    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Mouth and neck radiation - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000058.htm

# Mouth and neck radiation - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

When you have radiation treatment for cancer, your body goes through changes.
Follow your health care provider's instructions on how to care for yourself at
home. Use the information below as a reminder.

## What to Expect at Home

Two weeks after radiation treatment starts, you might notice changes in your
skin. Most of these symptoms go away after your treatments have stopped.

    * Your skin and mouth may turn red.
    * Your skin might start to peel or get dark.
    * Your skin may itch.
    * The skin under your chin may get droopy.

You may also notice changes in your mouth. You may have:

    * Dry mouth
    * Mouth pain
    * Nausea
    * Difficulty swallowing
    * Lost sense of taste
    * No appetite
    * Stiff jaw
    * Trouble opening your mouth very wide
    * Dentures may no longer fit well, and may cause sores in your mouth

Your body hair will fall out 2 to 3 weeks after radiation treatment starts,
but only in the area being treated. When your hair grows back, it may be
different than before.

## Taking Care of Your Skin

When you have radiation treatment, color markings are drawn on your skin. DO
NOT remove them. These show where to aim the radiation. If they come off, do
not redraw them. Tell your provider instead.

To care for the treatment area:

    * Wash gently with lukewarm water only. Don't scrub your skin.
    * Use a mild soap that doesn't dry out your skin.
    * Pat dry instead of rubbing dry.
    * Don't use lotions, ointments, makeup, perfumed powders, or other perfumed products on this area. Ask your provider what is OK to use.
    * Use only an electric razor to shave.
    * Don't scratch or rub your skin.
    * Don't put heating pads or ice bags on the treatment area.
    * Wear loose-fitting clothing around your neck.

Tell your provider if you have any breaks or openings in your skin.

Keep the area that is being treated out of direct sunlight. Wear clothing that
protects you from the sun, such as a hat with a broad brim and a shirt with
long sleeves. Use sunscreen.

## Taking Care of Your Mouth

Take good care of your mouth during cancer treatment. Not doing so can lead to
an increase in bacteria in your mouth. The bacteria can cause infection in
your mouth, which can spread to other parts of your body.

    * Brush your teeth and gums 2 or 3 times a day for 2 to 3 minutes each time.
    * Use a toothbrush with soft bristles.
    * Let your toothbrush air dry between brushings.
    * If toothpaste makes your mouth sore, brush with a solution of 1 teaspoon (5 grams) of salt mixed with 4 cups (1 liter) of water. Pour a small amount into a clean cup to dip your toothbrush into each time you brush.
    * Floss gently once a day. 

Rinse your mouth 5 or 6 times a day for 1 to 2 minutes each time. Use one of
the following solutions when you rinse:

    * 1 teaspoon (5 grams) of salt in 4 cups (1 liter) of water
    * 1 teaspoon (5 grams) of baking soda in 8 ounces (240 milliliters) of water
    * One half teaspoon (2.5 grams) of salt and 2 tablespoons (30 grams) of baking soda in 4 cups (1 liter) of water 

DO NOT use rinses that have alcohol in them. You may use an antibacterial
rinse 2 to 4 times a day for gum disease.

To further take care of your mouth:

    * Don't eat foods or drink beverages that have a lot of sugar in them. They may cause tooth decay.
    * Don't drink alcoholic beverages or eat spicy foods, acidic foods, or foods that are very hot or cold. These will bother your mouth and throat.
    * Use lip care products to keep your lips from drying out and cracking.
    * Sip water to ease mouth dryness.
    * Eat sugar-free candy or chew sugar-free gum to keep your mouth moist.

If you use dentures, wear them as infrequently as possible. Stop wearing your
dentures if you get sores on your gums.

Ask your doctor or dentist about medicine to help with mouth dryness or pain.

## Other Self-care

You need to eat enough protein and calories to keep your weight up. Ask your
provider about liquid food supplements that can help.

Tips to make eating easier:

    * Choose foods that you like.
    * Try foods with gravy, broths, or sauces. They will be easier to chew and swallow.
    * Eat small meals, and eat more often during the day.
    * Cut your food into small pieces.
    * Ask your doctor or dentist if artificial saliva might be helpful for you. 

Drink at least 8 to 12 cups (2 to 3 liters) of liquid each day, not including
coffee, tea, or other drinks that have caffeine in them.

If pills are hard to swallow, try crushing them and mixing them with ice cream
or another soft food. Ask your doctor or pharmacist before crushing your
medicines. Some medicines do not work when crushed.

You may feel tired after a few days. If you feel tired:

    * Don't try to do too much in a day. You probably will not be able to do everything you are used to doing.
    * Try to get more sleep at night. Rest during the day when you can.
    * Take a few weeks off work, or work less. 

## Follow-up Care

Your provider may check your blood counts regularly, especially if the
radiation treatment area on your body is large.

See your dentist as often as recommended.

## Alternative Names

Radiation - mouth and neck - discharge; Head and neck cancer - radiation;
Squamous cell cancer - mouth and neck radiation; Mouth and neck radiation -
dry mouth

## References

Doroshow JH. Approach to the patient with cancer. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI,
eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 179.

National Cancer Institute website. Radiation therapy and you: support for
people with cancer. www.cancer.gov/publications/patient-
education/radiationttherapy.pdf. Updated October 2016. Accessed February 28,
2018.

## Read More

    * Oral cancer
    * Throat or larynx cancer

## Patient Instructions

    * Drinking water safely during cancer treatment
    * Dry mouth during cancer treatment
    * Eating extra calories when sick - adults
    * Oral mucositis - self-care
    * Radiation therapy - questions to ask your doctor
    * Safe eating during cancer treatment
    * Swallowing problems 
    * Tracheostomy care
    * When you have diarrhea
    * When you have nausea and vomiting

## Review Date 1/31/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Head and Neck Cancer
    * Oral Cancer
    * Radiation Therapy

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

