Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007281.htm    
                                Description: Proton therapy is a kind of radiation used to treat cancer. Like other types of radiation, proton therapy kills cancer cells and stops them from growing.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Proton therapy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007281.htm

# Proton therapy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Proton therapy is a kind of radiation used to treat cancer. Like other types
of radiation, proton therapy kills cancer cells and stops them from growing.

## Information

Unlike other types of radiation therapy that use x-rays to destroy cancer
cells, proton therapy uses a beam of special particles called protons. Doctors
can better aim proton beams onto a tumor, so there is less damage to the
surrounding healthy tissue. This allows doctors to use a higher dose of
radiation with proton therapy than they can use with x-rays.

Proton therapy is used to treat cancers that have not spread. Because it
causes less damage to healthy tissue, proton therapy is often used for cancers
that are very close to critical parts of the body.

Doctors may use proton therapy to treat the following types of cancer:

    * Brain (acoustic neuroma, childhood brain tumors)
    * Eye (ocular melanoma, retinoblastoma)
    * Head and neck
    * Lung
    * Spine (chordoma, chondrosarcoma)
    * Prostate
    * Lymph system cancer

Researchers are also studying whether proton therapy might be used to treat
other noncancerous conditions, including macular degeneration.

HOW IT WORKS

Your health care provider will fit you with a special device that holds your
body still during treatment. The actual device used depends on the location of
your cancer. For example, people with head cancers may be fitted for a special
mask.

Next, you will have a computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging
(MRI) scan to map out the exact area to be treated. During the scan, you will
wear the device that helps you stay still. The radiation oncologist will use a
computer to trace the tumor and outline the angles at which the proton beams
will enter your body.

Proton therapy is performed on an outpatient basis. The treatment takes a few
minutes a day over a period of 6 to 7 weeks, depending on the type of cancer.
Before the treatment begins, you will get into the device that will hold you
still. The radiation therapist will take a few x-rays to fine-tune the
treatment.

You will be placed inside a donut-shaped device called a gantry. It will
rotate around you and point the protons in the direction of the tumor. A
machine called a synchrotron or cyclotron creates and speeds up the protons.
Then the protons are removed from the machine and magnets direct them to the
tumor.

The technician will leave the room while you are having proton therapy. The
treatment should only take 1 to 2 minutes. You should not feel any discomfort.
After the treatment is over, the technician will return to the room and help
you remove the device that held you still.

SIDE EFFECTS

Proton therapy may have side effects, but these tend to be milder than with
x-ray radiation because proton therapy causes less damage to healthy tissues.
Side effects depend upon the area being treated, but may include skin redness
and temporary hair loss in the radiation area.

AFTER THE PROCEDURE

Following proton therapy, you should be able to resume your normal activities.
You will likely see your doctor every 3 to 4 months for a follow-up exam.

## Alternative Names

Proton beam therapy; Cancer - proton therapy; Radiation therapy - proton
therapy; Prostate cancer - proton therapy

## References

Levin WP, DeLaney TF. Charged particle radiotherapy. In: Gunderson LL, Tepper
JE, eds. _Clinical Radiation Oncology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 19.

National Association for Proton Therapy website. Frequently asked questions.
proton-therapy.org/questions.htm. Accessed May 15, 2018.

Zeman EM, Schreiber EC, Tepper JE. Basics of radiation therapy. In:
Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Doroshow JH, Kastan MB, Tepper JE, eds.
_Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2014:chap 27.

## Review Date 4/2/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in hematology
and medical oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Radiation
Therapy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/RadiationTherapy2_thumb.jpg)Radiation
Therapy _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

