Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000661.htm    
                                Description: Your doctor prescribed a medicine called heparin. It has to be given as a shot at home.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

How to give a heparin shot

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000661.htm

# How to give a heparin shot

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Your doctor prescribed a medicine called heparin. It has to be given as a shot
at home.

A nurse or other health professional will teach you how to prepare the
medicine and give the shot. The provider will watch you practice and answer
your questions. You may take notes to remember the details. Keep this sheet as
a reminder of what you need to do.

## Getting Ready

To get prepared:

    * Gather your supplies: heparin, needles, syringes, alcohol wipes, medicine record, and container for used needles and syringes.
    * If you have a pre-filled syringe, make sure you have the right medicine at the right dose. Do not remove the air bubbles unless you have too much medicine in the syringe. Skip the section on "Filling the Syringe" and go to "Giving the Shot."

## Filling the Syringe

Follow these steps to fill the syringe with heparin:

    * Wash your hands with soap and water, and dry them well.
    * Check the heparin bottle label. Make sure it is the right medicine and that it has not expired.
    * If it has a plastic cover, take it off. Roll the bottle between your hands to mix it. Do not shake it.
    * Wipe the top of the bottle with an alcohol wipe. Let it dry. Do not blow on it.
    * Know the dose of heparin you want. Take the cap off the needle, being careful not to touch the needle to keep it sterile. Pull back the plunger of the syringe to put as much air in the syringe as the dose of medicine you want.
    * Put the needle into and through the rubber top of the heparin bottle. Push the plunger so the air goes into the bottle.
    * Keep the needle in the bottle and turn the bottle upside down.
    * With the tip of the needle in the liquid, pull back on the plunger to get the right dose of heparin into the syringe.
    * Check the syringe for air bubbles. If there are bubbles, hold both the bottle and syringe in one hand, and tap the syringe with your other hand. The bubbles will float to the top. Push the bubbles back into the heparin bottle, then pull back to get the right dose.
    * When there are no bubbles, take the syringe out of the bottle. Put the syringe down carefully so the needle does not touch anything. If you are not going to give the shot right away, carefully put the cover over the needle.
    * If the needle bends, do not straighten it. Get a new syringe.

## Giving the Shot

Wash your hands with soap and water. Dry them well.

Choose where to give the shot. Keep a chart of places you have used, so you do
not put the heparin in the same place all the time. Ask your provider for a
chart.

    * Keep your shots 1 inch (2.5 centimeters) away from scars and 2 inches (5 centimeters) away from your navel.
    * Do not put a shot in a spot that is bruised, swollen, or tender. 

The site you choose for the injection should be clean and dry. If your skin is
visibly dirty, clean it with soap and water. Or use an alcohol wipe. Allow the
skin to dry before giving the shot.

The heparin needs to go into the fat layer under the skin.

    * Pinch the skin and put the needle in at a 45Âº angle.
    * Push the needle all the way into the skin. Let go of the pinched skin. Inject the heparin slowly and steadily until it is all in. 

After all the medicine is in, leave the needle in for 5 seconds. Pull the
needle out at the same angle it went in. Put the syringe down and press the
shot site with a piece of gauze for a few seconds. Do not rub. If it bleeds or
oozes, hold it longer.

Throw away the needle and syringe in a safe hard container (sharps container).
Close the container, and keep it safely away from children and animals. Never
reuse needles or syringes.

Write down the date, time, and place on the body where you put the injection.

## Storing Your Heparin and Supplies

Ask your pharmacist how to store your heparin so it stays potent.

## Alternative Names

DVT - heparin shot; Deep venous thrombosis - heparin shot; PE - heparin shot;
Pulmonary embolism - heparin shot; Blood thinner - heparin shot; Anticoagulant
- heparin shot

## References

Smith SF, Duell DJ, Martin BC, Gonzalez L, Aebersold M. Medication
administration. In: Smith SF, Duell DJ, Martin BC, Gonzalez L, Aebersold M,
eds. _Clinical Nursing Skills: Basic to Advanced Skills_. 9th ed. New York,
NY: Pearson; 2016:chap 18.

## Review Date 7/12/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Blood Thinners

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

