Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000255.htm    
                                Description: Warfarin (Coumadin, Jantoven) is a medicine that helps keep your blood from clotting. It is also known as a blood thinner. This drug may be important if you have already had blood clots, or if your doctor    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Taking warfarin (Coumadin, Jantoven) - what to ask your doctor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000255.htm

# Taking warfarin (Coumadin, Jantoven) - what to ask your doctor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Warfarin (Coumadin, Jantoven) is a medicine that helps keep your blood from
clotting. It is also known as a blood thinner. This drug may be important if
you have already had blood clots, or if your doctor is worried that you may
form a blood clot.

Below are questions you may want to ask your health care provider to help you
when you take warfarin.

## Questions

Why am I taking warfarin?

    * What is a blood thinner?
    * How does it work?
    * Are there alternative blood thinners I could use? 

What will be changed for me?

    * How much bruising or bleeding should I expect?
    * Are there exercises, sports activities, or other activities that are not safe for me?
    * What should I do differently at school or work? 

How should I take warfarin?

    * Do I take it every day? Will it be the same dosage? What time of the day should I take it?
    * How can I tell the different warfarin pills apart?
    * What should I do if I am late for a dose? What should I do if I forget to take a dose?
    * How long will I need to take the warfarin? 

Can I still take acetaminophen (Tylenol), aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin),
or naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn)? What about other pain medicines? How about cold
medicines? What should I do if a doctor gives me a new prescription?

Do I need to make any changes in what I eat or drink? Can I drink alcohol?

What should I do if I fall? Are there changes I should make around the home?

What are the signs or symptoms that I may be bleeding somewhere in my body?

Do I need any blood tests? Where do I get them? How often?

## Alternative Names

Warfarin - what to ask your doctor; Coumadin - what to ask your doctor;
Jantoven - what to ask your doctor

## References

Aronson JK. Coumarin anticoagulants. In: Aronson JK, ed. _Meyler's Side
Effects of Drugs_. 16th ed. Waltham, MA: Elsevier; 2016:702-737.

Schulman S. Hirsh J. Antithrombotic therapy. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 38.

## Read More

    * Arrhythmias
    * Atrial fibrillation or flutter
    * Blood clots
    * Deep vein thrombosis
    * Heart attack
    * Pulmonary embolus

## Patient Instructions

    * Atrial fibrillation - discharge 
    * Heart attack - discharge
    * Heart failure - discharge
    * Heart valve surgery - discharge 
    * Taking warfarin (Coumadin)

## Review Date 2/6/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Blood Thinners

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

