Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000292.htm    
                                Description: Warfarin is a medicine that makes your blood less likely to form clots. It is important that you take warfarin exactly as you have been told. Changing how you take your warfarin, taking other medicines,    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Taking warfarin (Coumadin)

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000292.htm

# Taking warfarin (Coumadin)

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Warfarin is a medicine that makes your blood less likely to form clots. It is
important that you take warfarin exactly as you have been told. Changing how
you take your warfarin, taking other medicines, and eating certain foods all
can change the way warfarin works in your body. If this happens, you may be
more likely to form a clot or have bleeding problems.

## What to Expect at Home

Warfarin is a medicine that makes your blood less likely to form clots. This
may be important if:

    * You have already had blood clots in your leg, arm, heart, or brain.
    * Your health care provider is worried that a blood clot may form in your body. People who have a new heart valve, a large heart, a heart rhythm that is not normal, or other heart problems may need to take warfarin. 

When you are taking warfarin, you may be more likely to bleed, even from
activities you have always done.

Changing how you take your warfarin, taking other medicines, and eating
certain foods all can change the way warfarin works in your body. If this
happens, you may be more likely to form a clot or have bleeding problems.

## Taking Warfarin

It is important that you take warfarin exactly as you have been told.

    * Take only the dose your provider has prescribed. If you miss a dose, call your provider for advice.
    * If your pills look different from your last prescription, call your provider or pharmacist right away. The tablets are different colors, depending on the dose. The dose is also marked on the pill. 

Your provider will test your blood at regular visits. This is called an INR
test or sometimes a PT test. The test helps make sure you are taking the right
amount of warfarin to help your body.

Alcohol and some medicines can change how warfarin works in your body.

    * DO NOT drink alcohol while you are taking warfarin.
    * Talk with your provider before taking any other over-the-counter medicines, vitamins, supplements, cold medicines, antibiotics, or other drugs. 

Tell all of your providers that you are taking warfarin. This includes
doctors, nurses, and your dentist. Sometimes, you may need to stop or take
less warfarin before having a procedure. Always talk to the provider who
prescribed the warfarin before stopping or changing your dose.

Ask about wearing a medical alert bracelet or necklace that says you are
taking warfarin. This will let providers who take care of you in an emergency
know that you are taking this drug.

## Your Diet

Some foods can change the way warfarin works in your body. Make sure you check
with your provider before making any big changes in your diet.

You do not have to avoid these foods, but try to eat or drink only small
amounts of them. In the least, DO NOT change much of these foods and products
you eat day-to-day or week-to-week:

    * Mayonnaise and some oils, such as canola, olive, and soybean oils
    * Broccoli, Brussels sprouts, and raw green cabbage
    * Endive, lettuce, spinach, parsley, watercress, garlic, and scallions (green onions)
    * Kale, collard greens, mustard greens, and turnip greens
    * Cranberry juice and green tea
    * Fish oil supplements, herbs used in herbal teas 

## Other Tips

Because being on warfarin can make you bleed more than usual:

    * You should avoid activities that could cause an injury or open wound, such as contact sports.
    * Use a soft toothbrush, waxed dental floss, and an electric razor. Be extra careful around sharp objects. 

Prevent falls in your home by having good lighting and removing loose rugs and
electric cords from pathways. DO NOT reach or climb for objects in the
kitchen. Put things where you can get to them easily. Avoid walking on ice,
wet floors, or other slippery or unfamiliar surfaces.

Make sure you look for unusual signs of bleeding or bruising on your body.

    * Look for bleeding from the gums, blood in your urine, bloody or dark stool, nosebleeds, or vomiting blood.
    * Women need to watch for extra bleeding during their period or between periods.
    * Dark red or black bruises may appear. If this happens, call your doctor right away. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if you have:

    * A serious fall, or if you hit your head
    * Pain, discomfort, swelling at an injection or injury site
    * A lot of bruising on your skin
    * A lot of bleeding (such as nosebleeds or bleeding gums)
    * Bloody or dark brown urine or stool
    * Headache, dizziness, or weakness
    * A fever or other illness, including vomiting, diarrhea, or infection
    * You become pregnant or are planning to become pregnant 

## Alternative Names

Anticoagulant care; Blood-thinner care

## References

Jaffer IH, Weitz JI. Anticoagulant drugs. In: Sidawy AN, Perler BA, eds.
_Rutherford's Vascular Surgery and Endovascular Therapy_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 39.

Kager L, Evans WE. Pharmacogenomics and hematologic diseases. In: Hoffman R,
Benz EJ, Silberstein LE, Heslop HE, Weitz JI, Anastasi J, eds. _Hematology:
Basic Principles and Practice_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2018:chap 8.

Schulman S, Hirsh J. Antithrombotic therapy. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 38.

## Read More

    * Aortic valve surgery - minimally invasive
    * Aortic valve surgery - open
    * Blood clots
    * Carotid artery disease
    * Deep vein thrombosis
    * Heart attack
    * Mitral valve surgery - minimally invasive
    * Mitral valve surgery - open
    * Pulmonary embolus
    * Transient ischemic attack

## Patient Instructions

    * Atrial fibrillation - discharge 
    * Carotid artery surgery - discharge
    * Heart attack - discharge
    * Heart failure - discharge
    * Heart valve surgery - discharge 
    * Hip replacement - discharge 
    * Knee joint replacement - discharge 
    * Taking warfarin (Coumadin, Jantoven) - what to ask your doctor

## Review Date 1/28/2019

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Blood Thinners

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

