Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000100.htm    
                                Description: Platelets are small cells in your blood that your body uses to form clots and stop bleeding. If you have too many platelets or your platelets stick together too much, you are more likely to form clots.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Antiplatelet drugs - P2Y12 inhibitors

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000100.htm

# Antiplatelet drugs - P2Y12 inhibitors

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Platelets are small cells in your blood that your body uses to form clots and
stop bleeding. If you have too many platelets or your platelets stick together
too much, you are more likely to form clots. This clotting can take place on
the inside of your arteries and lead to heart attack or stroke.

![Plaque buildup in
arteries](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19314.jpg)

Antiplatelet drugs work to make your platelets less sticky and thereby help
prevent blood clots from forming in your arteries.

    * Aspirin is an antiplatelet drug that may be used.
    * P2Y12 receptor blockers are another group of antiplatelet drugs. This group of drugs includes: clopidogrel, ticlopidine, ticagrelor, prasugrel, and cangrelor. 

## Who Should Take Antiplatelet Drugs

Antiplatelet drugs may be used to:

    * Prevent heart attack or stroke for those with PAD.
    * Clopidogrel (Plavix, generic) may be used in place of aspirin for people who have narrowing of the coronary arteries or who have had a stent inserted.
    * Sometimes 2 anti-platelet drugs (one of which is almost always aspirin) are prescribed for people with unstable angina, acute coronary syndrome (unstable angina or early signs of heart attack), or those who have received a stent during PCI.
    * For heart disease primary and secondary prevention, daily aspirin is generally the first choice for antiplatelet therapy. Clopidogrel is prescribed instead of aspirin for people who are aspirin allergic or who cannot tolerate aspirin.
    * Clopidogrel and aspirin is recommended for people who are undergoing angioplasty with or without stenting.
    * Prevent or treat heart attacks.
    * Prevent stroke or transient ischemic attacks (TIAs are early warning signs of stroke. They are also called "mini-strokes.")
    * Prevent clots from forming inside stents put inside your arteries to open them.
    * Acute coronary syndrome.
    * After bypass graft surgery that uses a man-made or prosthetic graft performed on arteries below the knee.

Your health care provider will choose which one of these drugs are best for
your problem. At times, you may be asked to take low dose aspirin along with
one of these drugs.

## Side Effects

Side effects of this medicine may include:

    * Diarrhea
    * Itching
    * Nausea
    * Skin rash
    * Stomach pain

Before you start taking these medicines, tell your provider if:

    * You have bleeding problems or stomach ulcers.
    * You are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breastfeeding.

There are a number of other possible side effects, depending on which drug you
are prescribed. For example:

    * Ticlopidine may lead to a very low white blood cell count or an immune disorder that destroys platelets.
    * Ticagrelor may worsen kidney function and cause episodes of shortness of breath.

## Taking P2Y12 Inhibitors

This medicine is taken as a pill. Your provider may change your dose from time
to time.

Take this medicine with food and plenty of water to reduce side effects. You
may need to stop taking clopidogrel before you have surgery or dental work. DO
NOT just stop taking your medicine without first talking with your provider.

Talk with your provider before taking any of these drugs:

    * Heparin and other blood thinners, such as warfarin (Coumadin)
    * Pain or arthritis medicine (such as diclofenac, etodolac, ibuprofen, indomethacin, Advil, Aleve, Daypro, Dolobid, Feldene, Indocin, Motrin, Orudis, Relafen, or Voltaren)
    * Phenytoin (Dilantin), tamoxifen (Nolvadex, Soltamox), tolbutamide (Orinase), or torsemide (Demadex)

DO NOT take other drugs that may have aspirin or ibuprofen in them before
talking with your provider. Read the labels on cold and flu medicines. Ask
what other medicines are safe for you to take for aches and pains, colds, or
the flu.

If you have any type of procedure scheduled, you may need to stop these drugs
5 to 7 days before hand. However, always check with your provider first about
whether it is safe to stop.

Tell your provider if you are pregnant or planning to become pregnant, or
breastfeeding or planning to breastfeed. Women in the later stages of
pregnancy should not take clopidogrel. Clopidogrel can be passed to infants
through breast milk.

Talk with your provider if you have liver or kidney disease.

If you miss a dose:

    * Take it as soon as possible, unless it is time for your next dose.
    * If it is time for your next dose, take your usual amount.
    * DO NOT take extra pills to make up for a dose you have missed, unless your doctor tells you to.

Store these drugs and all other medicines in a cool, dry place. Keep them
where children cannot get to them.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call if you have any of these side effects and they do not go away:

    * Any signs of unusual bleeding, such as blood in the urine or stools, nosebleeds, any unusual bruising, heavy bleeding from cuts, black tarry stools, coughing up blood, heavier than usual menstrual bleeding or unexpected vaginal bleeding, vomit that looks like coffee grounds
    * Dizziness
    * Difficulty swallowing
    * Tightness in your chest or chest pain
    * Swelling in your face or hands
    * Itching, hives, or tingling in your face or hands
    * Wheezing or difficulty breathing
    * Very bad stomach pain
    * Skin rash 

## Alternative Names

Blood thinners - clopidogrel; Antiplatelet therapy - clopidogrel;
Thienopyridines

## Images

    * ![Plaque buildup in arteries](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19314t.jpg)Plaque buildup in arteries

## References

Abraham NS, Hlatky MA, Antman EM, et al. ACCF/ACG/AHA 2010 expert consensus
document on the concomitant use of proton pump inhibitors and thienopyridines:
a focused update of the ACCF/ACG/AHA 2008 expert consensus document on
reducing the gastrointestinal risks of antiplatelet therapy and NSAID use: a
report of the American College of Cardiology Foundation Task Force on Expert
Consensus Documents. _J Am Coll Cardiol_. 2010;56(24):2051-2066. PMID:
21126648 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21126648.

Fihn SD, Blankenship JC, Alexander KP, et al. 2014 ACC/AHA/AATS/PCNA/SCAI/STS
focused update of the guideline for the diagnosis and management of patients
with stable ischemic heart disease: a report of the American College of
Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines, and
the American Association for Thoracic Surgery, Preventive Cardiovascular
Nurses Association, Society for Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions,
and Society of Thoracic Surgeons. _Circulation_. 2014;130:1749-1767. PMID:
25070666 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25070666.

Goldstein LB. Prevention and management of ischemic stroke. In: Zipes DP,
Libby P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart
Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2019:chap 65.

January CT, Wann LS, Alpert JS, et al. 2014 AHA/ACC/HRS guideline for the
management of patients with atrial fibrillation: a report of the American
College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice
Guidelines and the Heart Rhythm Society. _J Am Coll Cardiol_.
2014;64(21):e1-e76. PMID: 24685669 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24685669.

Mauri L, Bhatt DL. Percutaneous coronary intervention. In: Zipes DP, Libby P,
Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease:
A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 62.

Meschia JF, Bushnell C, Boden-Albala B, et al. Guidelines for the primary
prevention of stroke: a statement for healthcare professionals from the
American Heart Association/American Strok Association. _Stroke_.
2014;45(12):3754-3832. PMID: 25355838 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25355838.

Morrow DA, de Lemos JA. Stable ischemic heart disease. In: Zipes DP, Libby P,
Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease:
A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 61.

Powers WJ, Rabinstein AA, Ackerson T, et al; 2018 Guidelines for the early
management of patients with acute ischemic stroke: a guideline for healthcare
professionals from the American Heart Association/American Stroke Association.
_Stroke_. 2018;49(3):e46-e110. PMID: 29367334
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29367334.

## Read More

    * Angina
    * Angioplasty and stent placement - carotid artery
    * Angioplasty and stent placement - peripheral arteries
    * Aortic valve surgery - minimally invasive
    * Aortic valve surgery - open
    * Cardiac ablation procedures 
    * Carotid artery surgery
    * Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)
    * Coronary heart disease
    * Heart bypass surgery
    * Heart bypass surgery - minimally invasive
    * Heart failure - overview
    * Heart pacemaker
    * High blood cholesterol levels
    * High blood pressure - adults
    * Implantable cardioverter-defibrillator
    * Mitral valve surgery - minimally invasive
    * Mitral valve surgery - open
    * Peripheral artery bypass - leg
    * Peripheral artery disease - legs

## Patient Instructions

    * Angina - discharge
    * Angioplasty and stent - heart - discharge 
    * Angioplasty and stent placement - carotid artery - discharge 
    * Angioplasty and stent placement - peripheral arteries - discharge 
    * Aspirin and heart disease
    * Atrial fibrillation - discharge 
    * Being active when you have heart disease
    * Cardiac catheterization - discharge 
    * Carotid artery surgery - discharge
    * Controlling your high blood pressure
    * Diabetes - preventing heart attack and stroke
    * Heart attack - discharge
    * Heart bypass surgery - discharge
    * Heart bypass surgery - minimally invasive - discharge
    * Heart failure - discharge
    * Heart valve surgery - discharge 
    * Peripheral artery bypass - leg - discharge 
    * Stroke - discharge 

## Review Date 7/25/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Blood Thinners

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

