Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002856.htm    
                                Description: Ticks are bugs that can attach to you as you brush past bushes, plants, and grass. Once on you, ticks often move to a warm, moist place on your body, like the armpits, groin, and hair. There, they typically    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Tick bite

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002856.htm

# Tick bite

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Ticks are bugs that can attach to you as you brush past bushes, plants, and
grass. Once on you, ticks often move to a warm, moist place on your body, like
the armpits, groin, and hair. There, they typically attach firmly to your skin
and begin to draw blood. Avoiding ticks is important because they can infect
you with bacteria and other organisms that cause illness.

Ticks can be fairly large, about the size of a pencil eraser, or so small that
they are almost impossible to see. There are about 850 different types of
ticks. Most tick bites are harmless, but some can cause mild to serious health
conditions.

This article describes the effects of a tick bite.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage a tick
bite. If you or someone you are with is bitten by a tick, call your local
emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be reached
directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

Hard- and soft-bodied female ticks are believed to make a poison that can
cause tick paralysis in children.

Most ticks do not carry diseases, but some carry bacteria or other organisms
that can cause:

    * Colorado tick fever
    * Lyme disease
    * Rocky Mountain spotted fever
    * Tularemia

These and other illnesses may cause heart, nervous system, kidney, adrenal
gland, and liver damage, and may cause death.

## Where Found

Ticks live in wooded areas or grassy fields.

## Symptoms

Watch for symptoms of tick-borne diseases in the weeks after a tick bite.
These include muscle or joint aches, stiff neck, headache, weakness, fever,
swollen lymph nodes, and other flu-like symptoms. Watch for a red spot or rash
starting at the site of the bite.

The symptoms below are from the bite itself, not from the diseases a bite may
cause. Some of the symptoms are caused by one variety of tick or another, but
may not be common to all ticks.

    * Stopped breathing
    * Difficulty breathing
    * Blisters
    * Rash
    * Severe pain at site, lasting several weeks (from some kinds of ticks)
    * Swelling at site (from some kinds of ticks)
    * Weakness
    * Uncoordinated movement

## Home Care

Remove the tick. Be careful not to leave the tick's head stuck in the skin. If
possible, place the tick in a closed container and take it to the emergency
room. Then clean the area with soap and water.

## Before Calling Emergency

Have this information ready:

    * Person's age, weight, and condition
    * Time the tick bite occurred
    * Part of the body affected 

## Poison Control

Your local poison center can be reached directly by calling the national toll-
free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.
They will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

The symptoms will be treated. Long-term treatment may be needed if
complications develop. Preventive antibiotics are often given to people who
live in areas where Lyme disease is common.

The person may receive:

    * Blood and urine tests
    * Breathing support, including oxygen, a tube down the throat and a breathing machine (ventilator) in serious cases
    * Chest x-ray
    * ECG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing)
    * Intravenous fluids (through a vein)
    * Medicines to treat symptoms 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most tick bites are harmless. The outcome will depend on what type of
infection the tick may have been carrying and how soon appropriate treatment
was started. If you are bitten by a tick that carried a disease and you were
not treated correctly, long-term health effects may occur months or even years
later.

Personal protection against bites may be achieved by avoiding areas where
ticks are known to be present and applying insect repellents.

To protect yourself against ticks, try to stay away from areas where ticks are
known to live. If you are in an area that habors ticks, apply insect repellant
to your body and wear protective clothing. Examine your skin for signs of tick
bites or ticks after your travels.

## Images

    * ![Lyme disease - erythema migrans](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1027t.jpg)Lyme disease - erythema migrans
    * ![Lyme disease organism - Borrelia burgdorferi](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1028t.jpg)Lyme disease organism - Borrelia burgdorferi
    * ![Deer ticks](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1119t.jpg)Deer ticks
    * ![Ticks](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1254t.jpg)Ticks
    * ![Tick - deer engorged on the skin](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1416t.jpg)Tick - deer engorged on the skin
    * ![Lyme disease - Borrelia burgdorferi organism](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1427t.jpg)Lyme disease - Borrelia burgdorferi organism
    * ![Tick, deer - adult female](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1431t.jpg)Tick, deer - adult female
    * ![Deer and dog tick](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19660t.jpg)Deer and dog tick
    * ![Tick imbedded in the skin](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2060t.jpg)Tick imbedded in the skin

## References

Bryant K. Tickborne infections. In: Long SS, Prober CG, Fischer M, eds.
_Principles and Practice of Pediatric Infectious Diseases_. 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 90.

Cummins GA, Traub SJ. Tick-borne diseases. In: Auerbach PS, Cushing TA, Harris
NS, eds. _Auerbach's Wilderness Medicine_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 42.

James WD, Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach MA, Neuhaus IM. Parasitic
infestations, stings, and bites. In: James WD, Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach
MA, Neuhaus IM, eds. _Andrews' Diseases of the Skin: Clinical Dermatology_.
13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 20.

Otten EJ. Venomous animal injuries. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 55.

## Review Date 6/30/2019

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Tick Bites](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TickBites_thumb.jpg)Tick Bites
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

