Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000675.htm    
                                Description: Colorado tick fever is a viral infection. It is spread by the bite of the Rocky Mountain wood tick (Dermacentor andersoni).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Colorado tick fever

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000675.htm

# Colorado tick fever

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Colorado tick fever is a viral infection. It is spread by the bite of the
Rocky Mountain wood tick ( _Dermacentor andersoni_ ).

## Causes

This disease is usually seen between March and September. Most cases occur in
April, May, and June.

Colorado tick fever is seen most often in the western United States and Canada
at elevations higher than 4,000 feet (1,219 meters). It is transmitted by a
tick biteÂ or, in very rare cases, by a blood transfusion.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of Colorado tick fever most often start 3 to 6 days after the tick
bite. A sudden fever continues for 3 days, goes away, then comes back 1 to 3
days later for another few days. Other symptoms include:

    * Feeling weak all over and muscle aches
    * Headache behind the eyes
    * Lethargy (sleepiness) or confusion  

    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Rash (may be light colored)
    * Sensitivity to light (photophobia)
    * Skin pain
    * Sweating

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will examine you and ask about your signs and
symptoms. If the provider suspects you have the disease, you will also be
asked about your outdoor activity.

Blood tests will usually be ordered. Antibody tests can be done to confirm the
infection. Other blood tests may include:

    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * Liver function tests

## Treatment

There are no specific treatments for this viral infection.

The provider will make sure the tick is fully removed from the skin.

You may be told to take a pain reliever if you need it. DO NOT give aspirin to
a child who has the disease. Aspirin has been linked with Reye syndrome in
children. It may also cause other problems in Colorado tick fever.

If complications develop, treatment will be aimed at controlling the symptoms.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Colorado tick fever usually goes away by itself and is not dangerous.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Infection of the membranes covering the brain and spinal cord (meningitis)
    * Irritation and swelling of the brain (encephalitis)
    * Repeated bleeding episodes for no apparent cause

Call your provider if you or your child develops symptoms of this disease, if
symptoms worsen orÂ do notÂ improve with treatment, or if new symptoms
develop.

## Prevention

When walking or hiking in tick-infested areas:

    * Wear closed shoes
    * WearÂ long sleeves
    * Tuck long pants into socks to protect the legs

Wear light-colored clothing, which shows ticks more easily than darker colors.
This makes them easier to remove.

Check yourself and your pets frequently. If you find ticks, remove themÂ right
awayÂ by using tweezers, pulling carefully and steadily. Insect repellent may
be helpful.

## Alternative Names

Mountain tick fever; Mountain fever; American mountain fever

## Images

    * ![Ticks](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1254t.jpg)Ticks
    * ![Tick imbedded in the skin](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2060t.jpg)Tick imbedded in the skin
    * ![Antibodies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9069t.jpg)Antibodies
    * ![Deer ticks](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1119t.jpg)Deer ticks

## References

Bolgiano EB, Sexton J. Tick-borne illnesses. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 126.

Cummins GA, Traub SJ. Tick-borne diseases. In: Auerbach PS, Cushing TA, eds.
_Auerbach's Wilderness Medicine._ 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 42.

## Review Date 12/1/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Tick Bites](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TickBites_thumb.jpg)Tick Bites
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

