Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007211.htm    
                                Description: Ticks are small, insect-like creatures that live in woods and fields. They attach to you as you brush past bushes, plants, and grass. Once on you, ticks often move to a warm, moist location. They are often    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Tick removal

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007211.htm

# Tick removal

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Ticks are small, insect-like creatures that live in woods and fields. They
attach to you as you brush past bushes, plants, and grass. Once on you, ticks
often move to a warm, moist location. They are often found in the armpits,
groin, and hair. Ticks attach firmly to your skin and begin to draw blood for
their meal. This process is painless. Most people will not notice the tick
bite.

Ticks can be fairly large, about the size of a pencil eraser. They can also be
so small that they are very hard to see. Ticks can transmit bacteria that can
cause disease. Some of these can be serious.

## Considerations

While most ticks do not carry bacteria that cause human diseases, some ticks
do carry these bacteria. These bacteria can cause:

    * Colorado tick fever
    * Lyme disease
    * Rocky Mountain spotted fever
    * Tularemia

## First Aid

If a tick is attached to you, follow these steps to remove it:

    1. Use tweezers to grasp the tick close to its head or mouth. DO NOT use your bare fingers. If you don't have tweezers and need to use your fingers, use a tissue or paper towel.
    2. Pull the tick straight out with a slow and steady motion. Avoid squeezing or crushing the tick. Be careful not to leave the head embedded in the skin.
    3. Clean the area well with soap and water. Also wash your hands thoroughly.
    4. Save the tick in a jar. Watch the person who was bitten carefully over the next week or two for symptoms of Lyme disease (such as rash or fever).
    5. If all parts of the tick can't be removed, get medical help. Bring the tick in the jar to your doctor appointment. 

## DO NOT

    * DO NOT try to burn the tick with a match or other hot object.
    * DO NOT twist the tick when pulling it out.
    * DO NOT try to kill, smother, or lubricate the tick with oil, alcohol, Vaseline, or similar material while the tick is still embedded in the skin. 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your doctor if you have not been able to remove the entire tick. Also
call in the days following a tick bite if you develop:

    * A rash
    * Flu-like symptoms, including fever and headache
    * Joint pain or redness
    * Swollen lymph nodes 

Call 911 if you have any signs of:

    * Chest pain
    * Heart palpitations
    * Paralysis
    * Severe headache
    * Trouble breathing 

## Prevention

To prevent tick bites:

    * Wear long pants and long sleeves when walking through heavy brush, tall grass, and thickly wooded areas.
    * Pull your socks over the outside of your pants to prevent ticks from crawling up your leg.
    * Keep your shirt tucked into your pants.
    * Wear light-colored clothes so that ticks can be spotted easily.
    * Spray your clothes with insect repellant.
    * Check your clothes and skin often while in the woods. 

After returning home:

    * Remove your clothes. Look closely at all your skin surfaces, including your scalp. Ticks can quickly climb up the length of your body.
    * Some ticks are large and easy to locate. Other ticks can be quite small, so carefully look at all black or brown spots on the skin.
    * If possible, ask someone to help you examine your body for ticks.
    * An adult should examine children carefully. 

## Images

    * ![Lyme disease](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19617t.jpg)Lyme disease
    * ![Deer and dog tick](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19660t.jpg)Deer and dog tick
    * ![Tick imbedded in the skin](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2060t.jpg)Tick imbedded in the skin

## References

Bolgiano EB, Sexton J. Tickborne illnesses. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 126.

Cummins GA, Traub SJ. Tick-borne diseases. In: Auerbach PS, Cushing TA, Harris
NS, eds. _Auerbach's Wilderness Medicine_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 42.

Diaz JH. Ticks, including tick paralysis. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ,
eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 298.

## Review Date 1/3/2019

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Tick Bites](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TickBites_thumb.jpg)Tick Bites
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

