Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001350.htm    
                                Description: Relapsing fever is a bacterial infection transmitted by a louse or tick. It is characterized by repeated episodes of fever.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Relapsing fever

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001350.htm

# Relapsing fever

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Relapsing fever is a bacterial infection transmitted by a louse or tick. It is
characterized by repeated episodes of fever.

## Causes

Relapsing fever is an infection caused by several species of bacteria in the
borrelia family.

There are two major forms of relapsing fever:

    * Tick-borne relapsing fever (TBRF) is transmitted by the ornithodoros tick. It occurs in Africa, Spain, Saudi Arabia, Asia, and certain areas in the western United States and Canada. The bacteria species associated with TBRF are _Borrelia duttoni_ , _Borrelia hermsii_ , and _Borrelia parkerii_.
    * Louse-borne relapsing fever (LBRF) is transmitted by body lice. It is most common in Asia, Africa, and Central and South America. The bacteria species associated with LBRF is _Borrelia recurrentis_. 

Sudden fever occurs within 2 weeks of infection.

    * In TRBF, multiple episodes of fever occur, and each may last up to 3 days. People may not have a fever for up to 2 weeks, and then it returns.
    * In LBRF, the fever commonly lasts 3 to 6 days. It is often followed by a single, milder episode of fever.

In both forms, the fever episode may end in "crisis." This consists of shaking
chills, followed by intense sweating, falling body temperature, and low blood
pressure. This stage may result in death.

In the United States, TBRF often occurs west of the Mississippi River,
particularly in the mountains of the West and the high deserts and plains of
the Southwest. In the mountains of California, Utah, Arizona, New Mexico,
Colorado, Oregon, and Washington, infections are usually caused by _Borrelia
hermsii_ and are often picked up in cabins in forests. The risk may now extend
into the southeastern United States.

LBRF is mainly a disease of the developing world. It is currently seen in
Ethiopia and Sudan. Famine, war, and the movement of refugee groups often
results in LBRF epidemics.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of relapsing fever include:

    * Bleeding
    * Coma
    * Headache
    * Joint aches, muscle aches
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Sagging on one side of the face (facial droop)
    * Stiff neck
    * Sudden high fever, shaking chills, seizure
    * Vomiting
    * Weakness, unsteady while walking 

## Exams and Tests

Relapsing fever should be suspected if someone coming from a high-risk area
has repeated episodes of fever. This is largely true if the fever is followed
by a "crisis" stage, and if the person may have been exposed to lice or soft-
bodied ticks.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Blood smear to determine the cause of the infection
    * Blood antibody tests (sometimes used, but their usefulness is limited) 

## Treatment

Antibiotics including penicillin and tetracycline are used to treat this
condition.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

People with this condition who have developed a coma, heart inflammation,
liver problems, or pneumonia are more likely to die. With early treatment, the
death rate is reduced.

## Possible Complications

These complications may occur:

    * Drooping of the face
    * Coma
    * Liver problems
    * Inflammation of the thin tissue that surrounds the brain and spinal cord
    * Inflammation of the heart muscle, which may lead to irregular heart rate
    * Pneumonia
    * Seizures
    * Stupor
    * Shock related to taking antibiotics (Jarisch-Herxheimer reaction, in which the rapid death of very large numbers of borrelia bacteria causes shock)
    * Weakness
    * Widespread bleeding 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your health care provider right away if you develop a fever after
returning from a trip. Possible infections need to be investigated in a timely
manner.

## Prevention

Wearing clothing that fully covers the arms and legs when you are outdoors can
help prevent TBRF infection. Insect repellent such as DEET on the skin and
clothing also work. Tick and lice control in high-risk areas is another
important public health measure.

## Alternative Names

Tick-borne relapsing fever; Louse-borne relapsing fever

## References

Horton JM. Relapsing fever caused by borrelia species. In: Bennett JE, Dolin
R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 242.

Petri WA. Relapsing fever and other borrelia infections. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 322.

## Review Date 12/1/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Tick Bites](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TickBites_thumb.jpg)Tick Bites
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

