Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001381.htm    
                                Description: Ehrlichiosis is a bacterial infection transmitted by the bite of a tick.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ehrlichiosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001381.htm

# Ehrlichiosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Ehrlichiosis is a bacterial infection transmitted by the bite of a tick.

## Causes

Ehrlichiosis is caused by bacteria that belong to the family called
rickettsiae. Rickettsial bacteria cause a number of serious diseases
worldwide, including Rocky Mountain spotted fever and typhus. All of these
diseases are spread to humans by a tick, flea, or mite bite.

Scientists first described ehrlichiosis in 1990. There are two types of the
disease in the United States:

    * Human monocytic ehrlichiosis (HME) is caused by the rickettsial bacteria _Ehrlichia chaffeensis._
    * Human granulocytic ehrlichiosis (HGE) is also called human granulocytic anaplasmosis (HGA). It is caused by the rickettsial bacteria called _Anaplasma phagocytophilum_. 

Ehrlichia bacteria can be carried by the:

    * American dog tick
    * Deer tick ( _Ixodes scapularis_ ), which can also cause Lyme disease
    * Lone Star tick 

In the United States, HME is found mainly in the southern central states and
the Southeast. HGE is found mainly in the Northeast and upper Midwest.

Risk factors for ehrlichiosis include:

    * Living near an area with a lot of ticks
    * Owning a pet that may bring a tick home
    * Walking or playing in high grasses 

## Symptoms

The incubation period between the tick bite and when symptoms occur is about 7
to 14 days.

Symptoms may seem like the flu (influenza), and may include:

    * Fever and chills
    * Headache
    * Muscle aches
    * Nausea

Other possible symptoms:

    * Diarrhea
    * Fine pinhead-sized areas of bleeding into the skin (petechial rash)
    * Flat red rash (maculopapular rash), which is uncommon
    * General ill feeling (malaise) 

A rash appears in fewer than one third of cases. Sometimes, the disease may be
mistaken for Rocky Mountain spotted fever, if the rash is present. The
symptoms are often mild, but people are sometimes sick enough to see a health
care provider.

## Exams and Tests

The provider will do a physical exam and check your vital signs, including:

    * Blood pressure
    * Heart rate
    * Temperature

Other tests include:

    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * Granulocyte stain
    * Indirect fluorescent antibody test
    * Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) testing of blood sample

## Treatment

Antibiotics (tetracycline or doxycycline) are used to treat the disease.
Children should not take tetracycline by mouth until after all their permanent
teeth have grown in, because it can permanently change the color of growing
teeth. Doxycycline that is used for 2 weeks or less usually does not discolor
a child's permanent teeth. Rifampin has also been used in people who cannot
tolerate doxycycline.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Ehrlichiosis is rarely deadly. With antibiotics, people usually improve within
24 to 48 hours. Recovery may take up to 3 weeks.

## Possible Complications

Untreated, this infection may lead to:

    * Coma
    * Death (rare)
    * Kidney damage
    * Lung damage
    * Other organ damage
    * Seizure

In rare cases, a tick bite can lead to more than one infection (co-infection).
This is because ticks can carry more than one type of organism. Two such
infections are:

    * Lyme disease
    * Babesiosis, a parasitic disease similar to malaria

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you become sick after a recent tick bite or if you have
been in areas where ticks are common. Be sure to tell your provider about the
tick exposure.

## Prevention

Ehrlichiosis is spread by tick bites. Measures should be taken to prevent tick
bites, including:

    * Wear long pants and long sleeves when walking through heavy brush, tall grass, and thickly wooded areas.
    * Pull your socks over the outside of pants to prevent ticks from crawling up your leg.
    * Keep your shirt tucked into your pants.
    * Wear light-colored clothes so that ticks can be spotted easily.
    * Spray your clothes with insect repellent.
    * Check your clothes and skin often while in the woods.

After returning home:

    * Remove your clothes. Look closely at all skin surfaces, including scalp. Ticks can quickly climb up the length of body.
    * Some ticks are large and easy to locate. Other ticks can be quite small, so carefully look at all black or brown spots on the skin.
    * If possible, ask someone to help you examine your body for ticks.
    * An adult should examine children carefully.

Studies suggest that a tick must be attached to your body for at least 24
hours to cause disease. Early removal may prevent infection.

If you are bitten by a tick, write down the date and time the bite happened.
Bring this information, along with the tick (if possible), to your provider if
you become sick.

## Alternative Names

Human monocytic ehrlichiosis; HME; Human granulocytic ehrlichiosis; HGE; Human
granulocytic anaplasmosis; HGA

## Images

    * ![Ehrlichiosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17163t.jpg)Ehrlichiosis
    * ![Antibodies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9069t.jpg)Antibodies

## References

Dumler JS, Walker DH. _Ehrlichia chaffeensis_ (human monocytotropic
ehrlichiosis), _Anaplasma phagocytophilum_ (human granulocytotropic
anaplasmosis), and other anaplasmataceae. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ,
eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 192.

Fournier PE, Raoult D. Rickettsial infections. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 311.

## Review Date 8/25/2019

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Tick Bites](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TickBites_thumb.jpg)Tick Bites
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

