Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000654.htm    
                                Description: Rocky Mountain spotted fever (RMSF) is a disease caused by a type of bacteria carried by ticks.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Rocky Mountain spotted fever

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000654.htm

# Rocky Mountain spotted fever

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Rocky Mountain spotted fever (RMSF) is a disease caused by a type of bacteria
carried by ticks.

## Causes

RMSF is caused by the bacteriumÂ _Rickettsia rickettsii (R Rickettsii)_ ,
which is carried by ticks. The bacteria spread to humans through a tick bite.

In the western United States, the bacteria are carried by the wood tick. In
the eastern US, they are carried by the dog tick. Other ticks spread the
infection in the southern US and in Central and South America.

Contrary to the name "Rocky Mountain," most recent cases have been reported in
the eastern US. States include North and South Carolina, Virginia, Georgia,
Tennessee, and Oklahoma. Most cases occur in the spring and summer and are
found in children.

Risk factors include recent hiking or exposure to ticks in an area where the
disease is known to occur. The bacteria are unlikely to be transmitted to a
person by a tick that has been attached for less than 20 hours. Only about 1
in 1,000 wood and dog ticks carry the bacteria. Bacteria can also infect
people who crush ticks they have removed from pets with their bare fingers.

## Symptoms

Symptoms usually develop about 2 to 14 days after the tick bite. They may
include:

    * Chills and fever 
    * Confusion 
    * Headache
    * Muscle pain
    * Rash -- usually starts a few days after the fever; first appears on wrists and ankles as spots that are 1 to 5 mm in diameter, then spreads to most of the body. Some infected people don't get a rash. 

Other symptoms that may occur with this disease:

    * Diarrhea 
    * Light sensitivity
    * Hallucinations
    * Loss of appetite
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Abdominal pain
    * Thirst

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical examination and ask about the
symptoms.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Antibody titer by complement fixation or immunofluorescence
    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * Kidney function tests
    * Partial thromboplastin time (PTT)
    * Prothrombin time (PT)
    * Skin biopsy taken from the rash to check for _R rickettsii_
    * Urinalysis to check for blood or protein in the urine

## Treatment

Treatment involves carefully removing the tick from the skin. To get rid of
the infection, antibiotics such asÂ doxycycline or tetracycline need to be
taken. Pregnant women are usuallyÂ prescribed chloramphenicol.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Treatment usually cures the infection. About 3% of people who get this disease
will die.

## Possible Complications

Untreated, the infection may lead to health problems such as:

    * Brain damage
    * Clotting problems
    * Heart failure
    * Kidney failure
    * Lung failure
    * Meningitis
    * Pneumonitis (lung inflammation)
    * Shock 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you develop symptoms after exposure to ticks or a tick
bite. The complications of untreated RMSF are often life threatening.

## Prevention

When walking or hiking in tick-infested areas, tuck long pants into socks to
protect the legs. Wear shoes and long-sleeved shirts. Ticks will show up on
white or light colors better than on dark colors, making them easier to see
and remove.

Remove ticks immediately by using tweezers, pulling carefully and steadily.
Insect repellent may be helpful. Because far fewer than 1% of ticks carry this
infection, antibiotics are not usually given after a tick bite.

## Alternative Names

Spotted fever

## Images

    * ![Rocky mountain spotted fever - lesions on arm](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1014t.jpg)Rocky mountain spotted fever - lesions on arm
    * ![Ticks](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1254t.jpg)Ticks
    * ![Rocky mountain spotted fever on the arm](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1307t.jpg)Rocky mountain spotted fever on the arm
    * ![Tick imbedded in the skin](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2060t.jpg)Tick imbedded in the skin
    * ![Rocky mountain spotted fever on the foot](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2888t.jpg)Rocky mountain spotted fever on the foot
    * ![Rocky mountain spotted fever - petechial rash](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2934t.jpg)Rocky Mountain spotted fever - petechial rash
    * ![Antibodies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9069t.jpg)Antibodies
    * ![Deer and dog tick](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19660t.jpg)Deer and dog tick

## References

Blanton LS, Walker DH. _Rickettsia rickettsii_ and other spotted fever group
rickettsiae (Rocky Mountain spotted fever and other spotted fevers). In:
Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's
Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2020:chap 186.

Bolgiano EB, Sexton J. Tickborne illnesses. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 126.

## Review Date 5/10/2019

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Tick Bites](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TickBites_thumb.jpg)Tick Bites
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

