Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001359.htm    
                                Description: Tick paralysis is a loss of muscle function that results from a tick bite.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Tick paralysis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001359.htm

# Tick paralysis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Tick paralysis is a loss of muscle function that results from a tick bite.

## Causes

Hard-bodied and soft-bodied female ticks are believed to make a poison that
can cause paralysis in children. Ticks attach to the skin to feed on blood.
The poison enters the bloodstream during this feeding process.

The paralysis is ascending. That means it starts in the lower body and moves
up.

## Symptoms

Children with tick paralysis develop an unsteady gait followed several days
later by weakness in the lower legs. This weakness gradually moves up to
involve the upper limbs.

Paralysis may cause breathing difficulties, which may require the use of a
breathing machine.

The child may also have mild, flu-like symptoms (muscle aches, tiredness).

## Exams and Tests

People can be exposed to ticks in many ways. For example, they may have gone
on a camping trip, live in a tick-infested area, or have dogs or other animals
that can pick up ticks. Often, the tick is found only after thoroughly
searching a person's hair.

Finding a tick embedded in the skin and having the above symptoms confirms the
diagnosis. No other testing is required.

## Treatment

Removing the tick removes the source of the poison. Recovery is rapid after
the tick is removed.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Full recovery is expected following the removal of the tick.

## Possible Complications

Breathing difficulties can cause respiratory failure. When this happens, the
body's organs do not have enough oxygen to work well.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

If your child suddenly becomes unsteady or weak, have the child examined right
away. Breathing difficulties require emergency care.

## Prevention

Use insect repellents and protective clothing when in tick-infested areas.
Tuck pant legs into socks. Carefully check the skin and hair after being
outside and remove any ticks you find.

If you find a tick on your child, write the information down and keep it for
several months. Many tick-borne diseases do not show symptoms right away, and
you may forget the incident by the time your child becomes sick with a tick-
borne disease.

## References

Aminoff MJ, So YT. Effects of toxins and physical agents on the nervous
system. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's
Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap
86.

Bolgiano EB, Sexton J. Tickborne illnesses. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2018:chap 126.

Cummins GA, Traub SJ. Tick-borne diseases. In: Auerbach PS, Cushing TA, Harris
NS, eds. _Auerbach's Wilderness Medicine_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 42.

Diaz JH. Ticks, including tick paralysis. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ,
eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 298.

## Review Date 4/4/2019

Updated by: Liora C. Adler, MD, Pediatric Emergency Medicine, Joe DiMaggio
Childrenâs Hospital, Hollywood, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Tick Bites](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TickBites_thumb.jpg)Tick Bites
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

