Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000282.htm    
                                Description: The bile ducts are tubes that move bile from the liver to the small intestine. Bile is a substance that helps with digestion. All of the bile ducts together are called the biliary tract.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Primary biliary cirrhosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000282.htm

# Primary biliary cirrhosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The bile ducts are tubes that move bile from the liver to the small intestine.
Bile is a substance that helps with digestion. All of the bile ducts together
are called the biliary tract.

When the bile ducts become swollen or inflamed, this blocks the flow of bile.
The buildup of bile damages the liver cells and leads to scarring of the liver
called cirrhosis. This is called biliary cirrhosis.

## Causes

The cause of inflamed bile ducts in the liver is not known. However, primary
biliary cirrhosis is an autoimmune disorder. That means your body's immune
system mistakenly attacks healthy tissue. The disease may be linked to
autoimmune disorders such as:

    * Celiac disease
    * Raynaud phenomenon
    * Sicca syndrome (dry eyes or mouth)
    * Thyroid disease 

The disease most often affects middle-aged women.

## Symptoms

More than one half of people have no symptoms at the time of diagnosis.
Symptoms most oftenÂ begin slowly. Early symptoms may include:

    * Nausea and belly pain 
    * Fatigue and loss of energy
    * Fatty deposits under the skin
    * Fatty stools
    * Itching
    * Poor appetite and weight loss

As liver function worsens, symptoms may include:

    * Fluid buildup in the legs (edema) and in the abdomen (ascites)
    * Yellow color in the skin, mucous membranes, or eyes (jaundice)
    * Redness on the palms of the hands
    * In men, impotence, shrinking of the testicles, and breast swelling
    * Easy bruising and abnormal bleeding, most often from swollen veins in the digestive tract
    * Confusion or problems thinking
    * Pale or clay-colored stools

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will do a physical exam.

The following tests can check to see if your liver is working properly:

    * Albumin blood test
    * Liver function tests (serum alkaline phosphatase is most important)
    * Prothrombin time (PT)
    * Cholesterol and lipoprotein blood tests 

Other tests that can help diagnose this disease are:

    * Elevated immunoglobulin M level in the blood
    * Liver biopsy
    * Anti-mitochondrial antibodies (results are positive in about 95% of cases)
    * Abdominal ultrasound
    * Magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP) 

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to ease symptoms and prevent complications.

Cholestyramine (or colestipol) may reduce the itching. Ursodeoxycholic acid
may improve removal of bile from the bloodstream. This may improve survival in
some people. A newer drug called obeticholic acid (Ocaliva) is also available.

Vitamin replacement therapy restores vitamins A, K, E and D, which are lost in
fatty stools. A calcium supplement or other bone medicines may be added to
prevent or treat weak or soft bones.

Long-term monitoring and treatment of liver failure is needed.

Liver transplant may be successful if it is done before liver failure occurs.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome can vary. If the condition is not treated, most people will die
without a liver transplant. About one quarter of people who have had the
disease for 10 years will have liver failure. Doctors can now use a
statistical model to predict the best time to do the transplant. Other
diseases, such as hypothyroidism and anemia, can also develop.

## Possible Complications

Progressive cirrhosis can lead to liver failure. Complications can include:

    * Bleeding
    * Damage to the brain (encephalopathy)
    * Fluid and electrolyte imbalance
    * Kidney failure
    * Malabsorption
    * Malnutrition
    * Soft or weak bones (osteomalacia or osteoporosis) 
    * Ascites (fluid buildup in the abdominal cavity)

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have:

    * Abdominal swelling
    * Blood in the stools
    * Confusion 
    * Jaundice 
    * Itching of the skin that does not go away and is not related to other causes 
    * Vomiting blood

## Alternative Names

Primary biliary cholangitis; PBC

## Patient Instructions

    * Cirrhosis - discharge

## Images

    * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
    * ![Bile pathway](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8794t.jpg)Bile pathway

## References

Eaton JE, Lindor KD. Primary biliary cirrhosis. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS,
Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver
Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 91.

Fogel EL, Sherman S. Diseases of the gallbladder and bile ducts. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 155.

Lamps LW. Liver: non-neoplastic diseases. In: Goldblum JR, Lamps LW, McKenney
JK, Myers JL, eds. _Rosai and Ackerman's Surgical Pathology_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier ; 2018:chap 19.

## Review Date 4/7/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bile
Duct](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BileDuctCancerandDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bile
Duct Diseases _Read more_

![Cirrhosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cirrhosis2_thumb.jpg)Cirrhosis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

