Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000285.htm    
                                Description: Sclerosing cholangitis refers to swelling (inflammation), scarring, and destruction of the bile ducts inside and outside of the liver.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Sclerosing cholangitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000285.htm

# Sclerosing cholangitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Sclerosing cholangitis refers to swelling (inflammation), scarring, and
destruction of the bile ducts inside and outside of the liver.

## Causes

The cause of this condition is unknown in most cases.

The disease may be seen in people who have:

    * Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) such as ulcerative colitis and Crohn disease  

    * Autoimmune disorders
    * Chronic pancreatitis (inflamed pancreas)
    * Sarcoidosis (a disease that causes inflammation in various parts of the body)

Genetic factors may also be responsible. Sclerosing cholangitis occurs more
often in men than women. This disorder is rare in children.

Sclerosing cholangitis may also be caused by:

    * Choledocholithiasis (gallstones in the bile duct)
    * Infections in the liver, gallbladder, and bile ducts

## Symptoms

The first symptoms are usually:

    * Fatigue
    * Itching
    * Yellowing of the skin and eyes (jaundice) 

However, some people have no symptoms.

Other symptoms may include:

    * Enlarged liver
    * Enlarged spleen
    * Loss of appetite and weight loss
    * Repeat episodes of cholangitis

## Exams and Tests

Even though some people do not have symptoms, blood tests shows that they have
abnormal liver function. Your health care provider will look for:

    * Diseases that cause similar problems
    * Diseases that often occur with this condition (especially IBD)
    * Gallstones

Tests that show cholangitis include:

    * Abdominal CT scan
    * Abdominal ultrasound
    * Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP)
    * Liver biopsy
    * Magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP)
    * Percutaneous transhepatic cholangiogram (PTC)

Blood tests include liver enzymes (liver function tests).

## Treatment

Medicines that may be used include:

    * Cholestyramine (such as Prevalite) to treat itching
    * Ursodeoxycholic acid (ursodiol) to improve liver function
    * Fat-soluble vitamins (D, E, A, K) to replace what is lost from the disease itself
    * Antibiotics to treat infections in the bile ducts

These surgical procedures may be done:

    * Inserting a long, thin tube with a balloon at the end to open up narrowing (endoscopic balloon dilation of strictures)
    * Placement of a drain or tube for major narrowing (strictures) of bile ducts
    * Proctocolectomy (removal of colon and rectum, for those who have both ulcerative colitis and sclerosing cholangitis)Â does not affect the progression of primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC)
    * Liver transplant

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well people do varies. The disease tends to get worse over time. Sometimes
people develop:

    * Ascites (buildup of fluid in the space between the lining of the abdomen and abdominal organs) and varices (enlarged veins)
    * Biliary cirrhosis (inflammation of the bile ducts)
    * Liver failure
    * Persistent jaundice

Some people develop infections of the bile ducts that keep returning.

People with this condition have a high risk of developing cancer of the bile
ducts (cholangiocarcinoma). They should be checked regularly with a liver
imaging test and blood tests. People who also have IBD may have an increased
risk of developing cancer of the colon or rectum and should have periodic
colonoscopy.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Bleeding esophageal varices
    * Cancer in the bile ducts (cholangiocarcinoma)
    * Cirrhosis and liver failure
    * Infection of the biliary system (cholangitis)
    * Narrowing of the bile ducts
    * Vitamin deficiencies 

## Alternative Names

Primary sclerosing cholangitis; PSC

## Images

    * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
    * ![Bile pathway](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8794t.jpg)Bile pathway

## References

Bowlus C, Assis DN, Goldberg D. Primary and secondary sclerosing cholangitis.
In: Sanyal AJ, Boyer TD, Lindor KD, Terrault NA, eds. _Zakim and Boyer's
Hepatology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 43.

Ross AS, Kowdley KV. Primary sclerosing cholangitis and recurrent pyogenic
cholangitis. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and
Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management._ 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 68.

Zyromski NJ, Pitt HA. The management of primary sclerosing cholangitis. In:
Cameron JL, Cameron AM, eds. _Current Surgical Therapy_. 12th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:453-458.

## Review Date 3/26/2019

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bile
Duct](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BileDuctCancerandDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bile
Duct Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

