Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000290.htm    
                                Description: Cholangitis is an infection of the bile ducts, the tubes that carry bile from the liver to the gallbladder and intestines. Bile is a liquid made by the liver that helps digest food.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cholangitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000290.htm

# Cholangitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cholangitis is an infection of the bile ducts, the tubes that carry bile from
the liver to the gallbladder and intestines. Bile is a liquid made by the
liver that helps digest food.

## Causes

Cholangitis is most often caused by bacteria. This can occur when the duct is
blocked by something, such as a gallstone or tumor. The infection causing this
condition may also spread to the liver.

Risk factors include a previous history of gallstones, sclerosing cholangitis,
HIV, narrowing of the common bile duct, and rarely, travel to countries where
you might catch a worm or parasite infection.

## Symptoms

The following symptoms may occur:

    * Pain on the upper right side or upper middle part of the abdomen. It may also be felt in the back or below the right shoulder blade. The pain may come and go and feel sharp, cramp-like, or dull.
    * Fever and chills.
    * Dark urine and clay-colored stools.
    * Nausea and vomiting.
    * Yellowing of the skin (jaundice), which may come and go.

## Exams and Tests

You may have the following tests to look for blockages:

    * Abdominal ultrasound
    * Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP)
    * Magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP)
    * Percutaneous transhepatic cholangiogram (PTCA) 

You may also have the following blood tests:

    * Bilirubin level
    * Liver enzyme levels
    * Liver function tests
    * White blood count (WBC) 

## Treatment

Quick diagnosis and treatment are very important.

Antibiotics to cure infection are the first treatment done in most cases. ERCP
or other surgical procedure is done when the person is stable.

People who are very ill or are quickly getting worse may need surgery right
away.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outcome is very often good with treatment, but poor without it.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Sepsis

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have symptoms of cholangitis.

## Prevention

Treatment of gallstones, tumors, and infestations of parasites may reduce the
risk for some people. A metal or plastic stent that is placed in the bile
system may be needed to prevent theÂ infection from returning.

## Images

    * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
    * ![Bile pathway](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8794t.jpg)Bile pathway

## References

Fogel EL, Sherman S. Diseases of the gallbladder and bile ducts. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 155.

Sifri CD, Madoff LC. Infections of the liver and biliary system (liver
abscess, cholangitis, cholescystitis). In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ,
eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2015:chap 77.

## Review Date 4/7/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bile
Duct](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BileDuctCancerandDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bile
Duct Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

