Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000215.htm    
                                Description: Cholestasis is any condition in which the flow of bile from the liver is slowed or blocked.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cholestasis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000215.htm

# Cholestasis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cholestasis is any condition in which the flow of bile from the liver is
slowed or blocked.

## Causes

There are many causes of cholestasis.

Extrahepatic cholestasis occurs outside the liver. It can be caused by:

    * Bile duct tumors 
    * Cysts 
    * Narrowing of the bile duct (strictures) 
    * Stones in the common bile duct 
    * Pancreatitis 
    * Pancreatic tumor or pseudocyst 
    * Pressure on the bile ducts due to a nearby mass or tumor 
    * Primary sclerosing cholangitis 

Intrahepatic cholestasis occurs inside the liver. It can be caused by:

    * Alcoholic liver disease 
    * Amyloidosis 
    * Bacterial abscess in the liver 
    * Being fed exclusively through a vein (IV) 
    * Lymphoma 
    * Pregnancy 
    * Primary biliary cirrhosis
    * Primary or metastatic liver cancer
    * Primary sclerosing cholangitis
    * Sarcoidosis
    * Serious infections that have spread through the bloodstream (sepsis) 
    * Tuberculosis
    * Viral hepatitis 

Certain medicines can also cause cholestasis, including:

    * Antibiotics such as ampicillin and other penicillins
    * Anabolic steroids
    * Birth control pills
    * Chlorpromazine
    * Cimetidine
    * Estradiol
    * Imipramine
    * Prochlorperazine
    * Terbinafine
    * Tolbutamide 

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

    * Clay-colored or white stools
    * Dark urine
    * Inability to digest certain foods
    * Itching
    * Nausea or vomiting
    * Pain in the right upper part of the abdomen 
    * Yellow skin or eyes

## Exams and Tests

Blood tests may show that you have elevatedÂ bilirubin and alkaline
phosphatase.

Imaging tests are used to diagnose this condition. Tests include:

    * CT scan of the abdomen
    * MRI of the abdomen
    * Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP), can also determine cause
    * Ultrasound of the abdomen

## Treatment

The underlying cause of cholestasis must be treated.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well a person does depends on the disease causing the condition. Stones in
the common bile duct can often be removed. This can cure the cholestasis.

Stents can be placed to open areas of the common bile duct that are narrowed
or blocked by cancers.

If the condition is caused by the use of a certain medicine, it will often go
away when you stop taking that drug.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Diarrhea
    * Organ failure can occur if sepsis develops
    * Poor absorption of fat and fat-soluble vitamins
    * Severe itching
    * Weak bones (osteomalacia) due to having cholestasis for a very long time

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have:

    * Itching that does not go away
    * Yellow skin or eyes
    * Other symptoms of cholestasis

## Prevention

Get vaccinated for hepatitis A and B if you are at risk. Do not use
intravenous drugs and share needles.

## Alternative Names

Intrahepatic cholestasis; Extrahepatic cholestasis

## Images

    * ![Gallstones](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8790t.jpg)Gallstones

## References

Eaton JE, Lindor KD. Primary biliary chirrhosis. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS,
Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver
Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 91.

Fogel EL, Sherman S. Diseases of the gallbladder and liver. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 155.

Lidofsky SD. Jaundice. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger
and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 21.

## Review Date 4/18/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bile
Duct](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BileDuctCancerandDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bile
Duct Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

