Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000263.htm    
                                Description: Bile duct obstruction is a blockage in the tubes that carry bile from the liver to the gallbladder and small intestine.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bile duct obstruction

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000263.htm

# Bile duct obstruction

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Bile duct obstruction is a blockage in the tubes that carry bile from the
liver to the gallbladder and small intestine.

## Causes

Bile is a liquid released by the liver. It contains cholesterol, bile salts,
and waste products such as bilirubin. Bile salts help your body break down
(digest) fats. Bile passes out of the liver through the bile ducts and is
stored in the gallbladder. After a meal, it is released into the small
intestine.

When the bile ducts become blocked, bile builds up in the liver, and jaundice
(yellow color of the skin) develops due to the increasing level of bilirubin
in the blood.

The possible causes of a blocked bile duct include:

    * Cysts of the common bile duct
    * Enlarged lymph nodes in the porta hepatis
    * Gallstones
    * Inflammation of the bile ducts
    * Narrowing of the bile ducts from scarring
    * Injury from gallbladder surgery
    * Tumors of the bile ducts or pancreas
    * Tumors that have spread to the biliary system
    * Liver and bile duct worms (flukes)

The risk factors include:

    * History of gallstones, chronic pancreatitis, or pancreatic cancer
    * Injury to the abdominal area
    * Recent biliary surgery
    * Recent biliary cancer (such as bile duct cancer) 

The blockage can also be caused by infections. This is more common in people
with weakened immune systems.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

    * Abdominal pain in the upper right side
    * Dark urine
    * Fever
    * Itching
    * Jaundice (yellow skin color)
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Pale-colored stools

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will examine you and feel your belly.

The following blood test results could be due to a possible blockage:

    * Increased bilirubin level
    * Increased alkaline phosphatase level
    * Increased liver enzymes 

The following tests may be used to investigate a possible blocked bile duct:

    * Abdominal ultrasound
    * Abdominal CT scan
    * Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP)
    * Percutaneous transhepatic cholangiogram (PTCA)
    * Magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP)
    * Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) 

A blocked bile duct may also alter the results of the following tests:

    * Amylase blood test
    * Gallbladder radionuclide scan
    * Lipase blood test
    * Prothrombin time (PT)
    * Urine bilirubin

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to relieve the blockage. Stones may be removed using
an endoscope during an ERCP.

In some cases, surgery is required to bypass the blockage. The gallbladder
will usually be surgically removed if the blockage is caused by gallstones.
Your provider may prescribe antibiotics if an infection is suspected.

If the blockage is caused by cancer, the duct may need to be widened. This
procedure is called endoscopic or percutaneous (through the skin next to the
liver) dilation. A tube may need to be placed to allow drainage.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

If the blockage is not corrected, it can lead to life-threatening infection
and a dangerous buildup of bilirubin.

If the blockage lasts a long time, chronic liver disease can result. Most
obstructions can be treated with endoscopy or surgery. Obstructions caused by
cancer often have a worse outcome.

## Possible Complications

Left untreated, the possible complications include infections, sepsis, and
liver disease, such as biliary cirrhosis.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you notice a change in the color of your urine and
stools or you develop jaundice.

## Prevention

Be aware of any risk factors you have, so that you can get prompt diagnosis
and treatment if a bile duct becomes blocked. TheÂ blockage itself may not be
preventable.

## Alternative Names

Biliary obstruction

## Images

    * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
    * ![Endocrine glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1093t.jpg)Endocrine glands
    * ![Bile pathway](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8794t.jpg)Bile pathway
    * ![Biliary obstruction - series - Normal anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19214t.jpg)Biliary obstruction - series

## References

Fogel EL, Sherman S. Diseases of the gallbladder and bile ducts. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 155.

Lidofsky SD. Jaundice. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger
and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 21.

## Review Date 4/7/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bile
Duct](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BileDuctCancerandDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bile
Duct Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

