Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003529.htm    
                                Description: Antimitochondrial antibodies (AMA) are substances (antibodies) that form against mitochondria. The mitochondria are an important part of cells. They are the energy source inside the cells. These help the    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Antimitochondrial antibody

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003529.htm

# Antimitochondrial antibody

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Antimitochondrial antibodies (AMA) are substances (antibodies) that form
against mitochondria. The mitochondria are an important part of cells. They
are the energy source inside the cells. These help the cells work properly.

This article discusses the blood test used to measure the amount of AMA in the
blood.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed. It is most often taken from a vein. The procedure is
called a venipuncture.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Your health care provider may tell you not to eat or drink anything for up to
6 hours before the test (most often overnight).

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others may feel only a prick or stinging sensation. Afterward, there may be
some throbbing.

## Why the Test is Performed

You may need this test if you have signs of liver damage. This test is most
often used to diagnose primary biliary cholangitis, formerly calledÂ primary
biliary cirrhosis (PBC).

The test may also be used to tell the difference between bile system-related
cirrhosis and liver problems due to other causes such as a blockage, viral
hepatitis, or alcoholic cirrhosis.

## Normal Results

Normally, there are no antibodies present.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

This test is important for diagnosing PBC. Almost all people with the
condition will test positive. It is rare that a person without the condition
will have a positive result. However, some people with a positive test for AMA
and no other sign of liver disease may progress to PBC over time.

Rarely, abnormal results may also be found that are due to other kinds of
liver disease and some autoimmune diseases.

## Risks

Risks for having blood drawn are slight but can include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken) 

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Beuers U, Gershwin ME, Gish RG, et al. Changing nomenclature for PBC: From
'cirrhosis' to 'cholangitis'. _Clin Res Hepatol Gastroenterol_.
2015;39(5):e57-e59. PMID: 26433440 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26433440.

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. A. In: Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory
Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders;
2013:84-180.

Eaton JE, Lindor KD. Primary biliary cirrhosis. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS,
Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 91.

Kakar S. Primary biliary cholangitis. In: Saxena R, ed. _Practical Hepatic
Pathology: A Diagnostic Approach_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2018:chap 26.

Zhang J, Zhang W, Leung PS, et al. Ongoing activation of autoantigen-specific
B cells in primary biliary cirrhosis. _Hepatology_. 2014;60(5):1708-1716.
PMID: 25043065 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25043065.

## Review Date 1/10/2019

Updated by: Gordon A. Starkebaum, MD, MACR, ABIM Board Certified in
Rheumatology, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bile
Duct](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BileDuctCancerandDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bile
Duct Diseases _Read more_

![Cirrhosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Cirrhosis2_thumb.jpg)Cirrhosis
_Read more_

![Liver Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LiverDisease_thumb.jpg)Liver
Diseases _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

