Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003575.htm    
                                Description: 5    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

5'-nucleotidase

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003575.htm

# 5'-nucleotidase

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

5'-nucleotidase (5'-NT) is a protein produced by the liver. A test can be done
to measure the amount of this protein in your blood.

## How the Test is Performed

Blood is drawn from a vein. You may feel slight pain or a sting when the
needle is inserted. Afterward, there may be some throbbing.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Your health care provider may tell you to stop taking some medicines that
could interfere with the test. Drugs that may affect results include:

    * Acetaminophen (Tylenol)
    * Halothane
    * Isoniazid
    * Methyldopa
    * Nitrofurantoin 

## Why the Test is Performed

Your provider may order this test if you have signs of a liver problem. It is
used mostly to tell if the high protein level is due to liver damage or
skeletal muscle damage.

## Normal Results

The normal value is 2 to 17 units per liter.

Note: Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Talk
to your provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

The examples above show the common measurements for results for these tests.
Some laboratories use different measurements or may test different specimens.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Greater than normal levels may indicate:

    * Flow of bile from the liver is blocked (cholestasis)
    * Heart failure
    * Hepatitis (inflamed liver)
    * Lack of blood flow to the liver
    * Liver tissue death
    * Liver cancer or tumor
    * Lung disease
    * Pancreas disease
    * Scarring of the liver (cirrhosis)
    * Use of drugs that are toxic to the liver

## Risks

Slight risks from having blood drawn may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Hematoma (blood accumulating under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)
    * Bruising 

## Alternative Names

5'-NT

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Carty RP, Pincus MR, Sarafranz-Yazdi E. Clinical enzymology. In: McPherson RA,
Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory
Methods_. 23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 20.

Pratt DS. Liver chemistry and function tests. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS,
Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 73.

## Review Date 2/2/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bile
Duct](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BileDuctCancerandDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bile
Duct Diseases _Read more_

![Hepatitis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hepatitis_thumb.jpg)Hepatitis
_Read more_

![Liver Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LiverCancer_thumb.jpg)Liver
Cancer _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

