Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001145.htm    
                                Description: Biliary atresia is a blockage in the tubes (ducts) that carry a liquid called bile from the liver to the gallbladder.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Biliary atresia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001145.htm

# Biliary atresia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Biliary atresia is a blockage in the tubes (ducts) that carry a liquid called
bile from the liver to the gallbladder.

## Causes

Biliary atresia occurs when the bile ducts inside or outside the liver do not
develop normally. The reason why this happens is unknown.

The bile ducts help remove waste from the liver and carry salts that help the
small intestine break down (digest) fat.

In babies with biliary atresia, bile flow from the liver to the gallbladder is
blocked. This can lead to liver damage and cirrhosis of the liver, which can
be deadly.

## Symptoms

Newborns with this condition may appear normal at birth. However, jaundice (a
yellow color to the skin and mucus membranes) develops by the second or third
week of life. The infant may gain weight normally for the first month. After
that point, the baby will lose weight and become irritable, and will have
worsening jaundice.

Other symptoms may include:

    * Dark urine
    * Enlarged spleen
    * Floating stools
    * Foul-smelling stools
    * Pale or clay-colored stools
    * Slow growth
    * Slow or no weight gain 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam, which includes feeling
the baby's belly area. The provider may feel an enlarged liver.

Tests to diagnose biliary atresia include:

    * Abdominal x-ray
    * Abdominal ultrasound
    * Blood tests to check total and direct bilirubin levels
    * Hepatobiliary iminodiacetic acid (HIDA) scan, also called cholescintigraphy, to help determine whether the bile ducts and gallbladder are working properly
    * Liver biopsy to determine the severity of cirrhosis or to rule out other causes of jaundice
    * X-ray of the bile ducts (cholangiogram) 

## Treatment

An operation called the Kasai procedure is done to connect the liver to the
small intestine. The abnormal ducts are bypassed. It is most successful if
done before the baby is 8 weeks old. However, a liver transplant may still be
needed.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Early surgery will improve the survival of more than one third of babies with
this condition. The long-term benefit of aÂ liver transplant is not yet known,
but it is expected to improve survival.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Infection
    * Irreversible cirrhosis
    * Liver failure
    * Surgical complications, including failure of the Kasai procedure 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if your child appears jaundiced, or if other symptoms of
biliary atresia develop.

## Alternative Names

Jaundice newborns - biliary atresia; Newborn jaundice - biliary atresia

## Patient Instructions

    * Newborn jaundice - discharge
    * Newborn jaundice - what to ask your doctor 

## Images

    * ![Bile produced in the liver](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9104t.jpg)Bile produced in the liver

## References

Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF. Cholestasis. In: Kliegman RM,
Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 356.

Suchy FJ. Anatomy, histology, embryology, developmental anomalies, and
pediatric disorders of the biliary tract. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt
LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_.10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 62.

Yamataka A, Cazares J, Miyano T. Biliary atresia. In: Holcomb GW, Murphy JP,
Ostlie DJ, eds. _Ashcrafts's Pediatric Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 43.

## Review Date 2/19/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bile
Duct](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BileDuctCancerandDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bile
Duct Diseases _Read more_

![Jaundice](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Jaundice_thumb.jpg)Jaundice _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

