Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003734.htm    
                                Description: Bile culture is a laboratory test to detect disease-causing germs (bacteria, viruses, or fungi) in the biliary system.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bile culture

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003734.htm

# Bile culture

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Bile culture is a laboratory test to detect disease-causing germs (bacteria,
viruses, or fungi) in the biliary system.

## How the Test is Performed

A sample of bile is needed. This can be done using different methods,
including gallbladder surgery or a procedure called endoscopic retrograde
cholangiopancreatography (ERCP).

The bile sample is sent to a lab. There, it is placed in a special dish called
a culture medium to see if bacteria, viruses, or fungi grow on the sample.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Preparation depends on the specific method used to obtain the bile sample.
Follow your health care provider's instructions exactly.

## How the Test will Feel

If bile is taken during gallbladder surgery, you will feel no pain because you
are asleep.

If bile is taken during ERCP, you will receive medicine to relax you. You may
have some discomfort as the endoscope passes through your mouth, throat, and
down the esophagus. This feeling will go away shortly. You may also be given
medicine (anesthesia) so that you will sleep lightly for this test. If you are
asleep, you will not feel any discomfort.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is done to detect infection within the biliary system. The biliary
system creates, moves, stores, and releases bile to help in digestion.

## Normal Results

The test result is normal if no bacteria, virus, or fungus grew in the
laboratory dish.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or may test different specimens. Talk to your
doctor about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An abnormal result means bacteria, fungus, or a virus grew in the laboratory
dish. This may be a sign of infection.

## Risks

Risks depend on the method used to take a sample of the bile. Your provider
can explain these risks.

## Alternative Names

Culture - bile

## Images

    * ![Bile culture](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9105t.jpg)Bile culture
    * ![ERCP](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19213t.jpg)ERCP

## References

Hall GS, Woods GL. Medical bacteriology. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds.
_Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 58.

Kim AY, Chung RT. Bacterial, parasitic, and fungal infections of the liver,
including liver abscesses. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds.
_Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 84.

## Review Date 7/11/2019

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bile
Duct](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BileDuctCancerandDiseases_thumb.jpg)Bile
Duct Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

