Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002923.htm    
                                Description: Exchange transfusion is a potentially life-saving procedure that is done to counteract the effects of serious jaundice or changes in the blood due to diseases such as sickle cell anemia.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Exchange transfusion

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002923.htm

# Exchange transfusion

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Exchange transfusion is a potentially life-saving procedure that is done to
counteract the effects of serious jaundice or changes in the blood due to
diseases such as sickle cell anemia.

The procedure involves slowly removing the person's blood and replacing it
with fresh donor blood or plasma.

## Description

An exchange transfusion requires that the person's blood be removed and
replaced. In most cases, this involves placing one or more thin tubes, called
catheters, into a blood vessel. The exchange transfusion is done in cycles,
each one most often lasts a few minutes.

The person's blood is slowly withdrawn (most often about 5 to 20 mL at a time,
depending on the person's size and the severity of illness). An equal amount
of fresh, prewarmed blood or plasma flows into the person's body. This cycle
is repeated until the correct volume of blood has been replaced.

After the exchange transfusion, catheters may be left in place in case the
procedure needs to be repeated.

In diseases such as sickle cell anemia, blood is removed and replaced with
donor blood.

In conditions such as neonatal polycythemia, a specific amount of the child's
blood is removed and replaced with a normal saline solution, plasma (the clear
liquid part of blood), or albumin (a solution of blood proteins). This
decreases the total number of red blood cells in the body and makes it easier
for blood to flow through the body.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

An exchange transfusion may be needed to treat the following conditions:

    * Dangerously high red blood cell count in a newborn (neonatal polycythemia)
    * Rh-induced hemolytic disease of the newborn
    * Severe disturbances in body chemistry
    * Severe newborn jaundice that does not respond to phototherapy with bili lights
    * Severe sickle cell crisis
    * Toxic effects of certain drugs 

## Risks

General risks are the same as with any transfusion. Other possible
complications include:

    * Blood clots
    * Changes in blood chemistry (high or low potassium, low calcium, low glucose, change in acid-base balance in the blood)
    * Heart and lung problems
    * Infection (very low risk due to careful screening of blood)
    * Shock if not enough blood is replaced 

## After the Procedure

The patient may need to be monitored for several days in the hospital after
the transfusion. The length of stay depends on what condition the exchange
transfusion was performed to treat.

## Alternative Names

Hemolytic disease - exchange transfusion

## Patient Instructions

    * Newborn jaundice - discharge

## Images

    * ![Exchange transfusion - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17092t.jpg)Exchange transfusion - series

## References

Costa K. Hematology. In: Hughes HK, Kahl LK, eds. _The Johns Hopkins Hospital:
The Harriet Lane Handbook_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 14.

Josephson CD, Sloan SR. Pediatric transfusion medicine. In: Hoffman R, Benz
EJ, Silberstein LE, et al, eds. _Hematology: Basic Principles and Practice_.
7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 121.

Maheshwari A, Carlo WA. Blood disorders. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme
JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 103.

Watchko JF. Neonatal indirect hyperbilirubinemia and kernicterus. In: Gleason
CA, Juul SE, eds. _Avery's Diseases of the Newborn_. 10th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 84.

## Review Date 10/18/2017

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Blood Transfusion and
Donation](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTransfusionandDonation_thumb.jpg)Blood
Transfusion and Donation _Read more_

![Common Infant and Newborn
Problems](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CommonInfantandNewbornProblems_thumb.jpg)Common
Infant and Newborn Problems _Read more_

![Jaundice](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Jaundice_thumb.jpg)Jaundice _Read
more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

