Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000431.htm    
                                Description: There are many reasons you may need a blood transfusion:    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Blood transfusions

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000431.htm

# Blood transfusions

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

There are many reasons you may need a blood transfusion:

    * After knee or hip replacement surgery, or other major surgery that results in blood loss
    * After a serious injury that causes a lot of bleeding
    * When your body cannot make enough blood 

A blood transfusion is a safe and common procedure during which you receive
blood through an intravenous (IV) line placed in one of your blood vessels. It
takes 1 to 4 hours to receive the blood, depending on how much you need.

There are several sources of blood, which are described below.

## Blood From the Public (Volunteer Blood Donation)

The most common source of blood is from volunteers in the general public. This
kind of donation is also called homologous blood donation.

Many communities have a blood bank at which any healthy person can donate
blood. This blood is tested to see if it matches yours.

You may have read about the danger of becoming infected with hepatitis, HIV,
or other viruses after a blood transfusion. Blood transfusions are not 100%
safe. But the current blood supply is thought to be safer now than ever.
Donated blood is tested for many different infections. Also, blood centers
keep a list of unsafe donors.

Donors answer a detailed list of questions about their health before they are
allowed to donate. Questions include risk factors for infections that can be
passed on through their blood, such as sexual habits, drug use, and current
and past travel history. This blood is then tested for infectious diseases
before it is allowed to be used.

## Directed Donor Blood From a Family Member or Friend

This method involves a family member or friend donating blood before a planned
surgery. This blood is then set aside and held only for you, if you need a
blood transfusion after surgery.

Blood from these donors must be collected at least a few days before it is
needed. The blood is tested to see if it matches yours. It is also screened
for infection.

Most of the time, you need to arrange with your hospital or local blood bank
before your surgery to have directed donor blood.

It is important to note that there is no evidence that receiving blood from
family members or friends is any safer than receiving blood from the general
public. In very rare cases, though, blood from family members can cause a
condition called graft-versus-host disease. For this reason, the blood needs
to be treated with radiation before it can be transfused.

## Autologous Blood Donation (Your own Blood)

Although blood donated by the general public and used for most people is
thought to be very safe, some people choose a method called autologous blood
donation.

Autologous blood is blood donated by you, which you later receive if you need
a transfusion during or after surgery.

    * You can have blood taken from 6 weeks to 5 days before your surgery.
    * Your blood is stored and is good for a few weeks from the day it is collected.
    * If your blood is not used during or after surgery, it will be thrown away. 

## References

Hsu Y-MS, Ness PM, Cushing MM. Principles of red blood cell transfusion. In:
Hoffman R, Benz EJ Jr, Silberstein LE, et al, eds. _Hematology: Basic
Principles and Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 111.

Miller RD. Blood therapy. In: Pardo MC, Miller RD, eds. _Basics of
Anesthesia_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 24.

U.S. Food and Drug Administration website. Blood and blood products.
www.fda.gov/vaccines-blood-biologics/blood-blood-products. Updated March 28,
2019. Accessed August 5, 2019.

## Review Date 7/8/2019

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Blood Transfusion and Donation

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

