Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001306.htm    
                                Description: A, B, AB, and O are the 4 major blood types. The types are based on small substances (molecules) on the surface of the blood cells.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

ABO incompatibility

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001306.htm

# ABO incompatibility

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A, B, AB, and O are the 4 major blood types. The types are based on small
substances (molecules) on the surface of the blood cells.

When people who haveÂ one blood type receive blood from someone with a
different blood type, it may cause their immune system to react. This is
called ABO incompatibility.

Due to modern testing techniques, this problem is very rare.

## Causes

The different blood types are:

    * Type A
    * Type B
    * Type AB
    * Type O 

People who haveÂ one blood type may form proteins (antibodies) that cause
their immune system to react againstÂ one or more of the other blood types.

Being exposed to another type of blood can cause a reaction. This is important
when someone needs to receive blood (transfusion) or have an organ transplant.
The blood types must be compatible to avoid an ABO incompatibility reaction.

For example:

    * People with type A blood will react against type B or type AB blood.
    * People with type B blood will react against type A or type AB blood.
    * People with type O blood will react against type A, type B, or type AB blood.
    * People with type AB blood will not react against type A, type B, type AB, or type O blood. 

Type O blood does not cause an immune response when it is given to people with
type A, type B, or type AB blood. This is why type O blood cells can be given
to people of any blood type. People with type O blood are called universal
donors. But people with type O can only receive type O blood.

Both blood and plasma transfusions must be matched to avoid an immune
reaction. Before anyone receives blood, both the blood and the person
receiving it are tested carefully to avoid a reaction. Usually, a reaction
occurs because of a clerical error causing someone to receive incompatible
blood.

## Symptoms

The following are symptoms of ABO incompatible transfusion reactions:

    * Low back pain
    * Blood in urine
    * Chills
    * Feeling of "impending doom"
    * Fever
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Shortness of breath
    * Increased heart rate
    * Pain at infusion site
    * Chest pain
    * Dizziness
    * Bronchospasm (spasm of the muscles lining the lung; causes cough)
    * Yellow skin and whites of the eyes (jaundice)
    * Acute kidney failure
    * Low blood pressure
    * Disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC)

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. Blood tests will
usually show:

    * The bilirubin level is high
    * The complete blood count (CBC) shows damage to red blood cells or anemia
    * The recipient's and donor's blood are not compatible
    * Elevated lactate dehydrogenase (LDH)
    * Elevated blood urea nitrogen (BUN)Â and creatinine; in case of renal injury
    * Prolonged prothrombin time or partial thromboplastin time (findings of DIC)
    * Positive direct antiglobulin test (DAT)

Urine tests show the presence of hemoglobin due to breakdown of red blood
cells.

## Treatment

In case of any reaction, transfusion should be stopped immediately. Treatment
may also include:

    * Medicines used to treat allergic reactions (antihistamines) 
    * Medicines used to treat swelling and allergies (steroids) 
    * Fluids given through a vein (intravenously)
    * Medicines to raise blood pressure if it drops too low 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

ABO incompatibility can be a very serious problem that can result in death.
With the right and timely treatment, a full recovery is expected.

## Possible Complications

Complications that may result include:

    * Kidney failure
    * Low blood pressure needing intensive care
    * Death

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have recently had a blood transfusion or transplant
and you have symptoms of ABO incompatibility.

## Prevention

Careful testing of donor andÂ recipient blood types before transfusion or
transplant can prevent this problem.

## Alternative Names

Transfusion reaction - hemolytic; Acute hemolytic transfusion reaction; AHTR;
Blood incompatibility - ABO

## Images

    * ![Jaundiced infant](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2913t.jpg)Jaundiced infant
    * ![Antibodies](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9069t.jpg)Antibodies

## References

Kaide CG, Thompson LR. Transfusion therapy: blood and blood products. In:
Roberts JR, Custalow CB, Thomsen TW, eds. _Roberts and Hedges' Clinical
Procedures in Emergency Medicine and Acute Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2019:chap 28.

Manis JP. Blood components, blood donor screening, and transfusion reactions.
In: Rifai N, ed. _Tietz Textbook of Clinical Chemistry and Molecular
Diagnostics_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2018:chap 81.

Nester T. Blood component therapy. In: Kellerman RD, Bope ET, eds. _Conn's
Current Therapy 2018_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2018:371-377.

## Review Date 4/11/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Blood Transfusion and
Donation](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTransfusionandDonation_thumb.jpg)Blood
Transfusion and Donation _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

