Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001303.htm    
                                Description: A hemolytic transfusion reaction is a serious complication that can occur after a blood transfusion. The reaction occurs when the red blood cells that were given during the transfusion are destroyed by    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hemolytic transfusion reaction

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001303.htm

# Hemolytic transfusion reaction

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A hemolytic transfusion reaction is a serious complication that can occur
after a blood transfusion. The reaction occurs when the red blood cells that
were given during the transfusion are destroyed by the person's immune system.
When red blood cells are destroyed, the process is called hemolysis.

There are other types of allergic transfusion reactions that do not cause
hemolysis.

## Causes

Blood is classified into four different types: A, B, AB, and O.

Another way blood cells may be classified is by Rh factors. People who have Rh
factors in their blood are called "Rh positive." People without these factors
are called "Rh negative." Rh negative people form antibodies against Rh factor
if they receive Rh positive blood.

There are also other factors to identify blood cells, in addition to ABO and
Rh.

Your immune system can usually tell its own blood cells from those of another
person. If you receive blood that is not compatible with your blood, your body
produces antibodies to destroy the donor's blood cells. This process causes
the transfusion reaction. Blood that you receive in a transfusion must be
compatible with your own blood. This means that your body does not have
antibodies against the blood you receive.

Most of the time, a blood transfusion between compatible groups (such as O+ to
O+) does not cause a problem. Blood transfusions between incompatible groups
(such as A+ to O-) cause an immune response. This can lead to a serious
transfusion reaction. The immune system attacks the donated blood cells,
causing them to burst.

Today, all blood is carefully screened. Transfusion reactions are rare.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

    * Back pain
    * Bloody urine
    * Chills
    * Fainting or dizziness 
    * Fever 
    * Flank pain
    * Flushing of the skin 

Symptoms of a hemolytic transfusion reaction most often appear during or right
after the transfusion. Sometimes, they may develop after several days (delayed
reaction).

## Exams and Tests

This disease may change the results of these tests:

    * CBC
    * Coombs test, direct
    * Coombs test, indirect
    * Fibrin degradation products
    * Haptoglobin
    * Partial thromboplastin time
    * Prothrombin time
    * Serum bilirubin
    * Serum creatinine
    * Serum hemoglobin
    * Urinalysis
    * Urine hemoglobin 

## Treatment

If symptoms occur during the transfusion, the transfusion must be stopped
right away. Blood samples from the recipient (person getting the transfusion)
and from the donor may be tested to tell whether symptoms are being caused by
a transfusion reaction.

Mild symptoms may be treated with:

    * Acetaminophen, a pain reliever to reduce fever and discomfort
    * Fluids given through a vein (intravenous) and other medicines to treat or prevent kidney failure and shock 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Outcome depends on how severe the reaction is. The disorder may disappear
without problems. Or, it may be severe and life threatening.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Acute kidney failure
    * Anemia
    * Lung problems
    * Shock

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Tell your health care provider if you are having a blood transfusion and you
have had a reaction before.

## Prevention

Donated blood is put into ABO and Rh groups to reduce the risk of transfusion
reaction.

Before a transfusion, recipient and donor blood are tested (cross-matched) to
see if they are compatible. A small amount of donor blood is mixed with a
small amount of recipient blood. The mixture is checked under a microscope for
signs of antibody reaction.

Before the transfusion, your provider will usually check again to make sure
you are receiving the right blood.

## Alternative Names

Blood transfusion reaction

## Images

    * ![Surface proteins causing rejection](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9985t.jpg)Surface proteins causing rejection

## References

Goodnough LT. Transfusion medicine. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 177.

Hall JE. Blood types; transfusion; tissue and organ transplantation. In: Hall
JE, ed. _Guyton and Hall Textbook of Medical Physiology_. 13th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 36.

Savage W. Transfusion reactions to blood and cell therapy products. In:
Hoffman R, Benz EJ, Silberstein LE, et al, eds. _Hematology: Basic Principles
and Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 119.

## Review Date 1/29/2019

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Blood Transfusion and
Donation](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTransfusionandDonation_thumb.jpg)Blood
Transfusion and Donation _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

