Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003687.htm    
                                Description: Triiodothyronine (T3) is a thyroid hormone. It plays an important role in the body    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

T3 test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003687.htm

# T3 test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Triiodothyronine (T3) is a thyroid hormone. It plays an important role in the
body's control of metabolism (the many processes that control the rate of
activity in cells and tissues).

A laboratory test can be done to measure the amount of T3 in your blood.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Your health care provider will tell you if you need to stop taking any
medicines before the test that may affect your test result. DO NOT stop taking
any medicine without first talking to your provider.

Drugs that can increase T3 measurements include:

    * Birth control pills
    * Clofibrate
    * Estrogens
    * Methadone
    * Certain herbal remedies 

Drugs that can decrease T3 measurements include:

    * Amiodarone
    * Anabolic steroids
    * Androgens
    * Antithyroid drugs (for example, propylthiouracil and methimazole)
    * Lithium
    * Phenytoin
    * Propranolol 

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or a slight bruise. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is done to check your thyroid function. Thyroid function depends on
the action of T3 and other hormones, including thyroid-stimulating hormone
(TSH) and T4.

Sometimes it can be useful to measure both T3 and T4 when evaluating thyroid
function.

The total T3 test measures the T3 that is both attached to proteins and
floating free in the blood.

The free T3 test measures the T3 that is floating free in the blood. The tests
for free T3 are generally less accurate than for total T3.

Your provider may recommend this test if you have signs of a thyroid disorder,
including:

    * The pituitary gland does not produce normal amounts of some or all of its hormone (hypopituitarism)
    * Overactive thyroid gland (hyperthyroidism)
    * Underactive thyroid gland (hypothyroidism)
    * Taking medicines for hypothyroidism

## Normal Results

The range for normal values are:

    * Total T3 -- 60 to 180 nanograms per deciliter (ng/dL), or 0.92 to 2.76 nanomoles per liter (nmol/L)
    * Free T3 -- 130 to 450 picgrams per deciliter (pg/dL), or 2.0 to 7.0 picomoles per liter (pmol/L)

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different specimens. Talk to your provider
about the meaning of your specific test results.

Normal values are age specific for people less than age 20. Check with your
provider about your specific results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A higher-than-normal level of T3 may be a sign of:

    * Overactive thyroid gland (for example, Graves disease)
    * T3 thyrotoxicosis (rare)
    * Toxic nodular goiter
    * Taking thyroid medicines or certain supplements (common)
    * Liver disease 

A high level of T3 may occur in pregnancy (especially with morning sickness at
the end of the first trimester) or with the use of birth control pills or
estrogen.

A lower-than-normal level may be due to:

    * Severe short-term or some long-term illnesses
    * Thyroiditis (swelling or inflammation of the thyroid gland -- Hashimoto disease is the most common type)
    * Starvation
    * Underactive thyroid gland 

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken.Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another and from one side of the body to the
other. Obtaining a blood sample from some people may be more difficult than
from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Hematoma (blood buildup under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

## Alternative Names

Triiodothyronine; T3 radioimmunoassay; Toxic nodular goiter - T3; Thyroiditis
- T3; Thyrotoxicosis - T3; Graves disease - T3

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9879t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Guber HA, Farag AF. Evaluation of endocrine function. In: McPherson RA, Pincus
MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_.
23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 24.

Salvatore D, Davies TF, Schlumberger MJ, Hay ID, Larsen PR. Thyroid physiology
and diagnostic evaluation of patients with thyroid disorders. In: Melmed S,
Polonsky KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of
Endocrinology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 11.

Weiss RE, Refetoff S. Thyroid function testing. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ,
de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 78.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hyperthyroidism](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hyperthyroidism_thumb.jpg)Hyperthyroidism
_Read more_

![Thyroid
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ThyroidDiseases_thumb.jpg)Thyroid
Diseases _Read more_

![Thyroid Tests](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ThyroidTests_thumb.jpg)Thyroid
Tests _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

