Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000375.htm    
                                Description: Subacute thyroiditis is an immune reaction of the thyroid gland that often follows an upper respiratory infection.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Subacute thyroiditis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000375.htm

# Subacute thyroiditis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Subacute thyroiditis is an immune reaction of the thyroid gland that often
follows an upper respiratory infection.

The thyroid gland is located in the neck, just above where your collarbones
meet in the middle.

## Causes

Subacute thyroiditis is an uncommon condition. It is thought to be the result
of a viral infection. The condition often occurs a few weeks after a viral
infection of the ear, sinus, or throat, such as mumps, the flu, or a common
cold.

Subacute thyroiditis occurs most often in middle-aged women with symptoms of a
viral upper respiratory tract infection in the past month.

## Symptoms

The most obvious symptom of subacute thyroiditis is pain in the neck caused by
a swollen and inflamed thyroid gland. Sometimes, the pain can spread (radiate)
to the jaw or ears. The thyroid gland may be painful and swollen for weeks or,
in rare cases, months.

Other symptoms include:

    * Tenderness when gentle pressure is applied to the thyroid gland
    * Difficulty swallowing, hoarseness
    * Fatigue, feeling weak
    * Fever

The inflamed thyroid gland may release too much thyroid hormone, causing
symptoms of hyperthyroidism, including:

    * More frequent bowel movements
    * Hair loss
    * Heat intolerance
    * Irregular (or very light) menstrual periods in women
    * Mood changes
    * Nervousness, tremor (shakiness of the hands)
    * Palpitations
    * Sweating
    * Weight loss, but with increased appetite

As the thyroid gland heals,Â it may release too little hormone, causing
symptoms of hypothyroidism, including:

    * Cold intolerance
    * Constipation
    * Fatigue
    * Irregular (or heavy) menstrual periods in women  

    * Weight gain
    * Dry skin
    * Mood changes

Thyroid gland function often returns to normal over a few months. During this
time you may need treatment for your underactive thyroid. In rare cases,
hypothyroidism may be permanent.

## Exams and Tests

Laboratory tests that may be done include:

    * Thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) level 
    * T4 (thyroid hormone, thyroxine) and T3 level 
    * Radioactive iodine uptake
    * Thyroglobulin level 
    * Erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) 

In some cases, a thyroid biopsy may be done.

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to reduce pain and treat hyperthyroidism, if it
occurs. Drugs such as aspirin or ibuprofen are used to control pain in mild
cases.

More serious cases may need short-term treatment with drugs that reduce
swelling, such as prednisone. Symptoms of an overactive thyroid are treated
with a class of drugs called beta-blockers.

If the thyroid becomes underactive during the recovery phase, thyroid hormone
replacement may be needed.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The condition should improve on its own.Â But the illness may last for months.
Long-term or severe complications do not often occur.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if:

    * You have symptoms of this disorder.
    * You have thyroiditis and symptoms do not improve with treatment.

## Prevention

Vaccines that prevent viral infections such as the flu may help prevent
subacute thyroiditis. Other causes may not be preventable.

## Alternative Names

De Quervain's thyroiditis; Subacute nonsuppurative thyroiditis; Giant cell
thyroiditis; Subacute granulomatous thyroiditis; Hyperthyroidism - subacute
thyroiditis

## Images

    * ![Endocrine glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1093t.jpg)Endocrine glands
    * ![Thyroid gland](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8966t.jpg)Thyroid gland

## References

Davies TF, Laurberg P, Bahn RS. Hyperthyroid disorders. In: Melmed S, Polonsky
KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_. 13th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 12.

Guimaraes VC. Subacute and Riedel's thyroiditis. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ,
de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 87.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hyperthyroidism](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hyperthyroidism_thumb.jpg)Hyperthyroidism
_Read more_

![Hypothyroidism](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hypothyroidism_thumb.jpg)Hypothyroidism
_Read more_

![Thyroid
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ThyroidDiseases_thumb.jpg)Thyroid
Diseases _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

