Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/thyroxine-t4-test/    
                                Description: A thyroxine test measures the level of thyroxine (T4) in the blood. Too much or too little T4 can indicate thyroid disease. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Thyroxine (T4) Test

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/thyroxine-t4-test/

# Thyroxine (T4) Test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What is a thyroxine (T4) test?

A thyroxine test helps diagnose disorders of the thyroid. The thyroid is a
small, butterfly-shaped gland located near the throat. Your thyroid makes
hormones that regulate the way your body uses energy. It also plays an
important role in regulating your weight, body temperature, muscle strength,
and even your mood. Thyroxine, also known as T4, is a type of thyroid hormone.
This test measures the level of T4 in your blood. Too much or too little T4
can indicate thyroid disease.

The T4 hormone comes in two forms:

    *  **Free T4** , which enters the body tissues where it's needed
    *  **Bound T4** , which attaches to proteins, preventing it from entering body tissues

A test that measures both free and bound T4 is called a total T4 test. Other
tests measure just free T4. A free T4 test is considered more accurate than a
total T4 test for checking thyroid function.

Other names: free thyroxine, free T4, total T4 concentration, thyroxine
screen, free T4 concentration

## What is it used for?

A T4 test is used to evaluate thyroid function and diagnose thyroid disease.

## Why do I need a thyroxine test?

Thyroid disease is much more common in women and most often occurs under the
age of 40. It also tend to run in families. You may need a thyroxine test if a
family member has ever had thyroid disease or if you have symptoms of having
too much thyroid hormone in your blood, a condition called hyperthyroidism, or
symptoms of having too little thyroid hormone, a condition called
hypothyroidism.

Symptoms of hyperthyroidism, also known as overactive thyroid, include:

    * Anxiety
    * Weight loss
    * Tremors in the hands
    * Increased heart rate
    * Puffiness
    * Bulging of the eyes
    * Trouble sleeping

Symptoms of hypothyroidism, also known as underactive thyroid, include:

    * Weight gain
    * Fatigue
    * Hair loss
    * Low tolerance for cold temperatures
    * Irregular menstrual periods
    * Constipation

## What happens during a thyroxine test?

A health care professional will take a blood sample from a vein in your arm,
using a small needle. After the needle is inserted, a small amount of blood
will be collected into a test tube or vial. You may feel a little sting when
the needle goes in or out. This usually takes less than five minutes.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You don't need any special preparations for a thyroxine blood test. If your
health care provider has ordered more tests on your blood sample, you may need
to fast (not eat or drink) for several hours before the test. Your health care
provider will let you know if there are any special instructions to follow.

## Are there any risks to the test?

There is very little risk to having a blood test. You may have slight pain or
bruising at the spot where the needle was put in, but most symptoms go away
quickly.

## What do the results mean?

Your results may come in the form of total T4, free T4, or a free T4 index.

    * The free T4 index includes a formula that compares free and bound T4.
    * High levels of any of these tests (total T4, free T4, or free T4 index) may indicate an overactive thyroid, also known as hyperthyroidism.
    * Low levels of any of these tests (total T4, free T4, or free T4 index) may indicate an underactive thyroid, also known as hypothyroidism.

If your T4 test results are not normal, your health care provider will likely
order more thyroid tests to help make a diagnosis. These may include:

    * T3 thyroid hormone tests. T3 is another hormone made by the thyroid.
    * A TSH (thyroid stimulating hormone) test. TSH is a hormone made by the pituitary gland. It stimulates the thyroid to produce T4 and T3 hormones.
    * Tests to diagnose Graves' disease, an autoimmune disease that causes hyperthyroidism
    * Tests to diagnose Hashimoto's thyroiditis, an autoimmune disease that causes hypothyroidism

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about a thyroxine test?

Thyroid changes can happen during pregnancy. Although it is not common, some
women can develop thyroid disease during pregnancy. Hyperthyroidism happens in
about 0.1% to 0.4% of pregnancies, while hypothyroidism happens in
approximately 2.5% of pregnancies.Â

Hyperthyroidism, and less often, hypothyroidism, may remain after pregnancy.
If you develop a thyroid condition during pregnancy, your health care provider
will monitor your condition after your baby is born. Also, if you have a
history of thyroid disease, be sure to talk with your health care provider if
you are pregnant or are thinking of becoming pregnant.

## References

    1. American Thyroid Association [Internet]. Falls Church (VA): American Thyroid Association; c2017. Thyroid Function Tests [cited 2017 May 22]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.thyroid.org/thyroid-function-tests
    2. Hinkle J, Cheever K. Brunner & Suddarth's Handbook of Laboratory and Diagnostic Tests. 2nd Ed, Kindle. Philadelphia: Wolters Kluwer Health, Lippincott Williams & Wilkins; c2014. Thryoxine, Serum 485 p.
    3. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Free T4: The Test [updated 2014 Oct 16; cited 2017 May 22]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/t4/tab/test
    4. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. Free T4: The Test Sample [updated 2014 Oct 16; cited 2017 May 22]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/t4/tab/sample
    5. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C.: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2017. TSH: The Test Sample [updated 2014 Oct 15; cited 2017 May 22]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/understanding/analytes/tsh/tab/sample
    6. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co. Inc.; c2017. Overview of the Thyroid Gland [cited 2017 May 22]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.merckmanuals.com/home/hormonal-and-metabolic-disorders/thyroid-gland-disorders/overview-of-the-thyroid-gland
    7. National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Graves' Disease; 2012 Aug [cited 2017 May 22]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/endocrine-diseases/graves-disease
    8. National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Hashimoto's Disease; 2014 May [cited 2017 May 22]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/endocrine-diseases/hashimotos-disease
    9. National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Thyroid Tests; 2014 May [cited 2017 May 22]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/diagnostic-tests/thyroid
    10. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What Are the Risks of Blood Tests? [updated 2012 Jan 6; cited 2017 May 22]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests#Risk-Factors
    11. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What To Expect with Blood Tests [updated 2012 Jan 6; cited 2017 May 22]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/blood-tests
    12. Soldin OP. Thyroid Function Testing in Pregnancy and Thyroid Disease: Trimester-specific Reference Intervals. Ther Drug Monit. [Internet]. 2006 Feb [cited 2019 Jun 3]; 28(1):8-11. Available from: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3625634
    13. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2017. Health Encyclopedia: Free and Bound T4 [cited 2017 May 22]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid;=t4_free_and_bound_blood
    14. University of Rochester Medical Center [Internet]. Rochester (NY): University of Rochester Medical Center; c2017. Health Encyclopedia: Free T4 [cited 2017 May 22]; [about 2 screens]. Available from:Â https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=167&contentid=free_t4_thyroxine  
  

## Related Health Topics

    * Hormones
    * Hyperthyroidism
    * Hypothyroidism
    * Thyroid Diseases
    * Thyroid Tests

## Related Lab Test Information

    * How to Understand Your Lab Results
    * Thyroglobulin
    * Thyroid Antibodies
    * TSH (Thyroid-stimulating hormone) Test

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 25 March 2020 Page last reviewed: 25 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

