Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000356.htm    
                                Description: Hyperthyroidism is a condition in which the thyroid gland makes too much thyroid hormone. The condition is often called overactive thyroid.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hyperthyroidism

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000356.htm

# Hyperthyroidism

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Hyperthyroidism is a condition in which the thyroid gland makes too much
thyroid hormone. The condition is often called overactive thyroid.

![Brain-thyroid link](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19148.jpg)

## Causes

The thyroid gland is an important organ of the endocrine system. It is located
at the front of the neck just above where your collarbones meet. The gland
makes the hormones that control the way every cell in the body uses energy.
This process is called metabolism.

![Thyroid gland](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/8966.jpg)

Many diseases and conditions can cause hyperthyroidism, including:

    * Graves disease (most common cause of hyperthyroidism)
    * Inflammation (thyroiditis) of the thyroid due to viral infections, some medicines, or after pregnancy (common)
    * Taking too much thyroid hormone (common)
    * Noncancerous growths of the thyroid gland or pituitary gland (rare)
    * Some tumors of the testes or ovaries (rare)
    * Getting medical imaging tests with contrast dye that has iodine (rare, and only if there is a problem with the thyroid)
    * Eating too much of foods that contain iodine (very rare, and only if there is a problem with the thyroid) 

## Symptoms

Common symptoms include:

    * Anxiety
    * Difficulty concentrating
    * Fatigue
    * Frequent bowel movements
    * Goiter (visibly enlarged thyroid gland) or thyroid nodules
    * Hair loss
    * Hand tremor
    * Heat intolerance
    * Increased appetite
    * Increased sweating
    * Irregular menstrual periods in women
    * Nail changes (thickness or flaking)
    * Nervousness
    * Pounding or racing heart beat (palpitations)
    * Restlessness
    * Sleep problems
    * Weight loss (or weight gain, in some cases) 
![Goiter](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/17071.jpg)

Other symptoms that can occur with this disease:

    * Breast development in men
    * Clammy skin
    * Diarrhea
    * Feeling faint when you raise your hands
    * High blood pressure
    * Itchy or irritated eyes
    * Itchy skin
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Protruding eyes (exophthalmos)
    * Skin blushing or flushing
    * Skin rash on the shins
    * Weakness of the hips and shoulders 
![Endocrine glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/1093.jpg)

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will do a physical exam. The exam may find the
following:

    * High systolic blood pressure (the first number in a blood pressure reading)
    * Increased heart rate
    * Enlarged thyroid gland
    * Shaking of the hands
    * Swelling or inflammation around the eyes
    * Very strong reflexes
    * Skin, hair, and nail changes

Blood tests are also ordered to measure your thyroid hormones TSH, T3, and T4.

You may also have blood tests to check:

    * Cholesterol levels
    * Glucose
    * Specialized thyroid tests like Thyroid receptor antibody (TRAb) or Thyroid Stimulating Immunoglobulin (TSI)

Imaging tests of the thyroid may also be needed, including:

    * Radioactive iodine uptake and scan
    * Thyroid ultrasound (rarely)

## Treatment

Treatment depends on the cause and severity of symptoms. Hyperthyroidism is
usually treated with one or more of the following:

    * Antithyroid medicines (propylthiouracil or methimazole) which reduce or block the effects of the extra thyroid hormoneÂ 
    * Radioactive iodine to destroy the thyroid gland and stop the excess production of hormones
    * Surgery to remove the thyroid 

If your thyroid is removed with surgery or destroyed with radioactive iodine,
you must take thyroid hormone replacement pills for the rest of your life.

Medicines called beta-blockers may be prescribed to treat symptoms such as
fast heart rate, tremor, sweating, and anxiety until the hyperthyroidism can
be controlled.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Hyperthyroidism is treatable. Some causes may go away without treatment.

Hyperthyroidism caused by Graves disease usually gets worse over time. It has
many complications, some of which are severe and affect quality of life.

## Possible Complications

Thyroid crisis (storm) is a sudden worsening of hyperthyroidism symptoms that
may occur with infection or stress. Fever, decreased alertness, and abdominal
pain may occur. People need to be treated in the hospital.

Other complications of hyperthyroidism include:

    * Heart problems such as fast heart rate, abnormal heart rhythm, and heart failure
    * Osteoporosis 

Surgery-related complications, including:

    * Scarring of the neck
    * Hoarseness due to nerve damage to the voice box
    * Low calcium level due to damage to the parathyroid glands (located near the thyroid gland)
    * Hypothyroidism (underactive thyroid) 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of hyperthyroidism. Go to an emergency
room or call the local emergency number (such as 911) if you have:

    * Change in consciousness
    * Dizziness
    * Rapid, irregular heartbeat 

Call your provider if you are being treated for hyperthyroidism and you
develop symptoms of underactive thyroid, including:

    * Depression
    * Mental and physical sluggishness
    * Weight gain 

## Alternative Names

Thyrotoxicosis; Overactive thyroid; Graves disease - hyperthyroidism;
Thyroiditis - hyperthyroidism; Toxic goiter - hyperthyroidism; Thyroid nodules
- hyperthyroidism; Thyroid hormone - hyperthyroidism

## Patient Instructions

    * Thyroid gland removal - discharge

## Images

    * ![Endocrine glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1093t.jpg)Endocrine glands
    * ![Goiter](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17071t.jpg)Goiter
    * ![Brain-thyroid link](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19148t.jpg)Brain-thyroid link
    * ![Thyroid gland](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8966t.jpg)Thyroid gland

## References

Davies TF, Laurberg P, Bahn RS. Hyperthyroid disorders. In: Melmed S, Polonsky
KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_. 13th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 12.

Ferri FF. Hyperthyroidism. In: Ferri FF, ed. _Ferri's Clinical Advisor 2019_.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:736-737.

Grant CS. Hyperthyroidism. In: Cameron JL, Cameron AM, eds. _Current Surgical
Therapy_. 12th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:776-782.

Ross DS, Burch HB, Cooper DS, et al. 2016 American Thyroid Association
guidelines for diagnosis and management of hyperthyroidism and other causes of
thyrotoxicosis. _Thyroid_. 2016;26(10):1343-1421. PMID: 27521067
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/ 27521067.

Weiss RE, Refetoff S. Thyroid function testing. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ,
de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 78.

## Review Date 6/14/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hyperthyroidism](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hyperthyroidism_thumb.jpg)Hyperthyroidism
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

