Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003684.htm    
                                Description: A TSH test measures the amount of thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) in your blood. TSH is produced by the pituitary gland. It prompts the thyroid gland to make and release thyroid hormones into the blood.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

TSH test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003684.htm

# TSH test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A TSH test measures the amount of thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) in your
blood. TSH is produced by the pituitary gland. It prompts the thyroid gland to
make and release thyroid hormones into the blood.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed. Other thyroid tests that may be done at the same
time include:

    * T3 test (free or total)
    * T4 test (free or total) 

## How to Prepare for the Test

There is no preparation needed for this test. Ask your health care provider
about any medicines you are taking that may affect the test results. DO NOT
stop taking any medicines without first asking your provider.

Medicines you may need to stop for a short time include:

    * Amiodarone
    * Dopamine
    * Lithium
    * Potassium iodide
    * Prednisone or other glucocorticoid medicines 

The vitamin biotin (B7) can affect the results of the TSH test. If you take
biotin, talk to your provider before you have any thyroid function tests.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or a slight bruise. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

Your provider will order this test if you have symptoms or signs of an
overactive or underactive thyroid gland. It is also used to monitor treatment
of these conditions.

Your provider may also check your TSH level if you are planning to get
pregnant.

## Normal Results

Normal values range from 0.5 to 5 microunits per milliliter (ÂµU/mL).

TSH values can vary during the day. It is best to have the test early in the
morning. Experts do not fully agree on what the upper number should be when
diagnosing thyroid disorders.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your provider
about the meaning of your specific test results.

If you are being treated for a thyroid disorder, your TSH level will likely be
kept between 0.5 and 4.0Â ÂµU/mL, except when:

    * A pituitary disorder is the cause of the thyroid problem. A low TSH may be expected.
    * You have a history of certain types of thyroid cancer. A TSH value below the normal range may be best to prevent the thyroid cancer from coming back.
    * A woman is pregnant. The normal range for TSH is different for women who are pregnant. Your provider may suggest that you take thyroid hormone, even if your TSH is in the normal range. 

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A higher-than-normal TSH level is most often due to an underactive thyroid
gland (hypothyroidism). There are many causes of this problem.

A lower-than-normal level may be due to an overactive thyroid gland, which can
be caused by:

    * Graves disease
    * Toxic nodular goiter or multinodular goiter
    * Too much iodine in the body (due to receiving iodine contrast used during imaging tests, such as CT scan)
    * Taking too much thyroid hormone medicine or prescribed natural or over-the-counter supplements that contain thyroid hormone 

Use of certain medicines may also cause a lower-than-normal TSH level. These
include glucocorticoids/steroids, dopamine, certain chemotherapy drugs, and
opioid painkillers such as morphine.

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken.Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another and from one side of the body to the
other. Obtaining a blood sample from some people may be more difficult than
from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Hematoma (blood buildup under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

## Alternative Names

Thyrotropin; Thyroid stimulating hormone; Hypothyroidism - TSH;
Hyperthyroidism - TSH; Goiter - TSH

## Images

    * ![Endocrine glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1093t.jpg)Endocrine glands
    * ![Pituitary and TSH](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9971t.jpg)Pituitary and TSH

## References

Guber HA, Farag AF. Evaluation of endocrine function. In: McPherson RA, Pincus
MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_.
23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 24.

Salvatore D, Davies TF, Schlumberger MJ, Hay ID, Larsen PR. Thyroid physiology
and diagnostic evaluation of patients with thyroid disorders. In: Melmed S,
Polonsky KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of
Endocrinology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 11.

Weiss RE, Refetoff S. Thyroid function testing. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ,
de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 78.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hyperthyroidism](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hyperthyroidism_thumb.jpg)Hyperthyroidism
_Read more_

![Hypothyroidism](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hypothyroidism_thumb.jpg)Hypothyroidism
_Read more_

![Thyroid
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ThyroidDiseases_thumb.jpg)Thyroid
Diseases _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

