Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000319.htm    
                                Description: Thyrotoxic periodic paralysis is a condition in which there are episodes of severe muscle weakness. It occurs in people who have high levels of thyroid hormone in their blood (hyperthyroidism, thyrotoxicosis).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Thyrotoxic periodic paralysis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000319.htm

# Thyrotoxic periodic paralysis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Thyrotoxic periodic paralysis is a condition in which there are episodes of
severe muscle weakness. It occurs in people who have high levels of thyroid
hormone in their blood (hyperthyroidism, thyrotoxicosis).

## Causes

This is a rare condition that occurs only in people with high thyroid hormone
levels (thyrotoxicosis). Asian and Hispanic men are affected more often. Not
everyone who develops high thyroid hormone levels will be at risk of periodic
paralysis.

There is a similar disorder, called hypokalemic, or familial, periodic
paralysis. It is an inherited condition and not related to high thyroid
levels, but has the same symptoms.

Risk factors include a family history of periodic paralysis and
hyperthyroidism.

## Symptoms

Symptoms involve attacks of muscle weakness or paralysis. The attacks
alternate with periods of normal muscle function. Attacks often begin after
symptoms of hyperthyroidism have developed.

The frequency of attacks varies from daily to yearly. Episodes of muscle
weakness may last for a few hours or several days.

The weakness or paralysis:

    * Comes and goes
    * Can last from a few hours up to several days (rare)
    * Is more common in the legs than the arms
    * Is most common in the shoulders and hips
    * Is triggered by heavy, high-carbohydrate, high-salt meals
    * Is triggered during rest after exercise

Other rare symptoms may include any of the following:

    * Difficulty breathing
    * Speech difficulty
    * Swallowing difficulty
    * Vision changes

People are alert during attacks and can answer questions. Normal strength
returns between attacks. Muscle weakness may develop over time with repeated
attacks.

Symptoms of hyperthyroidism include:

    * Excessive sweatingÂ 
    * Fast heart rate
    * Fatigue
    * Headache
    * Heat intolerance
    * Increased appetite
    * Insomnia
    * More frequent bowel movements
    * Sensation of feelingÂ a strongÂ heartbeat (palpitations)
    * Tremors of the hand
    * Warm, moist skin
    * Weight loss 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider may suspect thyrotoxic periodic paralysis based on:

    * Abnormal thyroid hormone levels
    * A family history of the disorder 
    * Low potassium level during attacks 
    * Symptoms that come and go in episodes 

Diagnosis involves ruling out disorders associated with low potassium.

The provider may try to trigger an attack by giving you insulin and sugar
(glucose, which reduces potassium level) or thyroid hormone.

The following signs may be seen during the attack:

    * Decreased or no reflexes 
    * Heart arrhythmias
    * Low potassium in the bloodstream (potassium levels are normal between attacks) 

Between attacks, the examination is normal. Or, there may be signs of
hyperthyroidism, such as an enlarged thyroid changes in the eyes, tremor, hair
and nail changes.

The following tests are used to diagnose hyperthyroidism:

    * High thyroid hormone levels (T3 or T4)
    * Low serum TSH (thyroid stimulating hormone) levels
    * Thyroid uptake and scan

Other test results:

    * Abnormal electrocardiogram (ECG) during attacks
    * Abnormal electromyogram (EMG) during attacks
    * Low serum potassium during attacks, but normal between attacks 

A muscle biopsy may sometimes be taken.

## Treatment

Potassium should also be given during the attack,Â usually by mouth. If
weakness is severe,Â you may need to get potassium through a vein (IV). Note:
You should only get IV if your kidney function is normal and you are monitored
in the hospital.

Weakness that involves the muscles used for breathing or swallowing is an
emergency. People must be taken to a hospital. Serious irregularity of
heartbeatÂ may also occur during attacks.

Your provider may recommend a diet that is low in carbohydrates and salt to
prevent attacks. Medicines called beta-blockers may reduce the number and
severity of attacks while your hyperthyroidism is brought under control.

Acetazolamide is effective at preventing attacks in people with familial
periodic paralysis. It is usually not effective for thyrotoxic periodic
paralysis.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

If an attack isn't treated and the breathing muscles are affected, death can
occur.

Chronic attacks over time can lead to muscle weakness. This weakness canÂ
continue even between attacks if the thyrotoxicosis is not treated.

Thyrotoxic periodic paralysis responds well to treatment. Treating
hyperthyroidism will prevent attacks and may even reverse muscle weakness.

## Possible Complications

Untreated thyrotoxic periodic paralysis can lead to:

    * Difficulty breathing, speaking, or swallowing during attacks (rare)
    * Heart arrhythmias during attacks
    * Muscle weakness that gets worse over time

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call the local emergency number (such as 911) or go to the emergency room if
you have periods of muscle weakness. This is especially important if you have
a family history of periodic paralysis or thyroid disorders.

Emergency symptoms include:

    * Difficulty breathing, speaking, or swallowing 
    * Falls due to muscle weakness 

## Prevention

Genetic counseling may be advised. Treating the thyroid disorder prevents
attacks of weakness.

## Alternative Names

Periodic paralysis - thyrotoxic; Hyperthyroidism - periodic paralysis

## Images

    * ![Thyroid gland](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8966t.jpg)Thyroid gland

## References

Davies TF, Laurberg P, Bahn RS. Hyperthyroid disorders. In: Melmed S, Polonsky
KS, Larsen R, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_. 13th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 12.

Kerchner GA, Ptacek LJ. Channelopathies: episodic and electrical disorders of
the nervous system. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds.
_Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 99.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hyperthyroidism](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hyperthyroidism_thumb.jpg)Hyperthyroidism
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

