Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000358.htm    
                                Description: Graves disease is an autoimmune disorder that leads to an overactive thyroid gland (hyperthyroidism). An autoimmune disorder is a condition that occurs when the immune system mistakenly attacks healthy    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Graves disease

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000358.htm

# Graves disease

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Graves disease is an autoimmune disorder that leads to an overactive thyroid
gland (hyperthyroidism). An autoimmune disorder is a condition that occurs
when the immune system mistakenly attacks healthy tissue.

## Causes

The thyroid gland is an important organ of the endocrine system. The gland is
located at the front of the neck above where the collarbones meet. This gland
releases the hormones thyroxine (T4) and triiodothyronine (T3), which control
body metabolism. Controlling metabolism is important for regulating mood,
weight, and mental and physical energy levels.

When the body makes too much thyroid hormone, the condition is called
hyperthyroidism. (An underactive thyroid leads to hypothyroidism.)

Graves disease is the most common cause of hyperthyroidism. It is due to an
abnormal immune system response that causes the thyroid gland to produce too
much thyroid hormone. Graves disease is most common in women over age 20. But
the disorder can occur at any age and can affect men as well.

## Symptoms

Younger people may have these symptoms:

    * Anxiety or nervousness, as well as problems sleeping
    * Breast enlargement in men (possible)
    * Problems concentrating
    * Fatigue
    * Frequent bowel movements
    * Hair loss
    * Heat intoleranceÂ and increased sweating
    * Increased appetite, despite having weight loss
    * Irregular menstrual periods in women
    * Muscle weakness of the hips and shoulders
    * Moodiness, including irritability and anger
    * Palpitations (sensation of a strong or unusual heartbeat)  

    * Rapid or irregular heartbeat
    * Shortness of breath with activity
    * Tremor (shakiness of the hands)

Many people with Graves disease have problems with their eyes:

    * The eyeballs may seem to be bulging out and may be painful.
    * Eyes can feel irritated, itchy or be tearing more frequently.
    * Double vision may be present.
    * Severe symptoms such as decreased vision and damage to the cornea can also occur.

Older people may have these symptoms:

    * Rapid or irregular heartbeat
    * Chest pain
    * Memory loss or decreased concentration
    * Weakness and fatigue 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will do a physical exam and may find that you have an
increased heart rate. An exam of your neck may find that your thyroid gland is
enlarged (goiter).

Other tests include:

    * Blood tests to measure levels of TSH, T3, and free T4
    * Radioactive iodine uptake and scan 

This disease may also affect the following test results:

    * Orbit CT scan or ultrasound
    * Thyroid stimulating immunoglobulin (TSI)
    * Thyroid peroxidase (TPO) antibody
    * Anti-TSH receptor antibody (TRAb)

## Treatment

Treatment is aimed at controlling your overactive thyroid. Medicines called
beta-blockers are often used to treat symptoms of rapid heart rate, sweating,
and anxiety until the hyperthyroidism is controlled.

Hyperthyroidism is treated with one or more of the following:

    * Antithyroid drugs can block or change how the thyroid gland uses iodine. These drugs may be used to control the overactive thyroid gland before surgery or radioiodine therapy or as a long-term treatment.
    * Radioiodine therapy in which radioactive iodine is given by mouth. It then concentrates in the overactive thyroid tissue and causes damage.
    * Surgery may be done to remove the thyroid.

If you have had radioactive iodine treatment or surgery, you will need to take
replacement thyroid hormones for the rest of your life. This is because these
treatments destroy or remove the gland.

TREATMENT OF THE EYES

Some of the eye problems related to Graves disease often improve after
treatment with medicines, radiation, or surgery to treat the overactive
thyroid. Radioiodine therapy can sometimes make eye problems worse. Eye
problems are worse in people who smoke, even after the hyperthyroidism is
treated.

Sometimes, prednisone (a steroid medication that suppresses the immune system)
is needed to reduce eye irritation and swelling.

You may need to tape your eyes closed at night to prevent drying. Sunglasses
and eye drops may reduce eye irritation. In rare cases, surgery or radiation
therapy (different from radioactive iodine) may be needed to prevent further
damage to the eye and loss of vision.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Graves disease often responds well to treatment. Thyroid surgery or
radioactive iodine often will cause an underactive thyroid (hypothyroidism).
Without getting the correct dosage of thyroid hormone replacement,
hypothyroidism can lead to:

    * Depression
    * Mental and physical sluggishness
    * Weight gain
    * Dry skin
    * Constipation
    * Cold intolerance
    * Abnormal menstrual periods in women

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of Graves disease. Also call if your
eye problems or other symptoms get worse or do not improve with treatment.

Go to the emergency room or call the local emergency number (such as 911) if
you have symptoms of hyperthyroidism with:

    * Decrease in consciousness
    * Fever
    * Rapid, irregular heartbeat 
    * Sudden shortness of breath

## Alternative Names

Diffuse thyrotoxic goiter; Hyperthyroidism - Graves; Thyrotoxicosis - Graves;
Exophthalmos - Graves; Ophthalmopathy - Graves; Exophthalmia - Graves;
Exorbitism - Graves

## Images

    * ![Endocrine glands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1093t.jpg)Endocrine glands
    * ![Thyroid enlargement - scintiscan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1206t.jpg)Thyroid enlargement - scintiscan
    * ![Graves disease](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17067t.jpg)Graves disease
    * ![Thyroid gland](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8966t.jpg)Thyroid gland

## References

Davies TF, Laurberg P, Bahn RS. Hyperthyroid disorders. In: Melmed S, Polonsky
KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_. 13th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 12.

Marino M, Vitti P, Chiovato L. Graves' disease. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ,
de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 82.

Ross DS, Burch HB, Cooper DS, et al. 2016 American Thyroid Association
guidelines for diagnosis and management of hyperthyroidism and other causes of
thyrotoxicosis. _Thyroid_. 2016;26(10):1343-1421. PMID: 27521067
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27521067.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hyperthyroidism](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hyperthyroidism_thumb.jpg)Hyperthyroidism
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

