Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000388.htm    
                                Description: Silent thyroiditis is an immune reaction of the thyroid gland. The disorder can cause hyperthyroidism, followed byÂ hypothyroidism.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Silent thyroiditis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000388.htm

# Silent thyroiditis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Silent thyroiditis is an immune reaction of the thyroid gland. The disorder
can cause hyperthyroidism, followed byÂ hypothyroidism.

The thyroid gland is located in the neck, just above where your collarbones
meet in the middle.

## Causes

The cause of the disease isÂ unknown. But it is related to an immune attack
against the thyroid by the immune system. The disease affects women more often
than men.

The disease can occur in women who have just had a baby. It can also be caused
by medicines such as interferon and amiodarone, and some types of
chemotherapy, which affect the immune system.

## Symptoms

The earliest symptoms result from an overactive thyroid gland
(hyperthyroidism). These symptoms may last for up to 3 months.

Symptoms are often mild, and may include:

    * Fatigue, feeling weak 
    * Frequent bowel movements 
    * Heat intolerance
    * Increased appetite
    * Increased sweating 
    * Irregular menstrual periods
    * Mood changes, such as irritability
    * Muscle cramps
    * Nervousness, restlessness
    * Palpitations
    * Weight loss 

Later symptoms may be of an underactive thyroid (hypothyroidism), including
fatigue and cold intolerance, until the thyroid recovers. Some people only
notice the hypothyroid symptoms and do not have symptoms of hyperthyroidism.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will examine you and ask about your symptoms and
medical history.

A physical examination may show:

    * Enlarged thyroid gland that is not painful to the touch
    * Rapid heart rate
    * Shaking hands (tremor) 

Tests that may be done include:

    * Radioactive iodine uptake
    * Thyroid hormones T3 and T4
    * TSH
    * Erythrocyte sedimentation rate
    * C-reactive protein

Many providers now screen for thyroid disease before and after starting
medicines that commonly cause this condition.

## Treatment

Treatment is based on symptoms. Medicines called beta-blockers may be used toÂ
relieve rapid heart rate and excessive sweating.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Silent thyroiditis often goes away on its own within 1 year. The acute phase
ends within 3 months.

Some people develop hypothyroidism over time. They need to be treated for a
while with a medicine that replaces thyroid hormone. Regular follow-ups with a
provider are recommended.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of this condition.

## Alternative Names

Lymphocytic thyroiditis; Subacute lymphocytic thyroiditis; Painless
thyroiditis; Postpartum thyroiditis; Thyroiditis - silent; Hyperthyroidism -
silent thyroiditis

## Images

    * ![Thyroid gland](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8966t.jpg)Thyroid gland

## References

Davies TF, Laurberg P, Bahn RS. Hyperthyroid disorders. In: Melmed S, Polonsky
KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_. 13th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 12.

Kim M, Ladenson PW. Thyroid. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 226.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hyperthyroidism](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hyperthyroidism_thumb.jpg)Hyperthyroidism
_Read more_

![Hypothyroidism](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hypothyroidism_thumb.jpg)Hypothyroidism
_Read more_

![Thyroid
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ThyroidDiseases_thumb.jpg)Thyroid
Diseases _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

