Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003688.htm    
                                Description: The T3RU test measures the level of proteins that carry thyroid hormone in the blood. This can help your health care provider interpret the results of T3 and T4 blood tests.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

T3RU test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003688.htm

# T3RU test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The T3RU test measures the level of proteins that carry thyroid hormone in the
blood. This can help your health care provider interpret the results of T3 and
T4 blood tests.

Because tests called the free T4 blood test and TBG blood tests are now
available, the T3RU test is rarely used these days.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Your provider will tell you if you need to stop taking any medicines before
the test that may affect your test result. DO NOT stop taking any medicine
without first talking to your provider.

Some drugs that can increase T3RU levels include:

    * Anabolic steroids
    * Heparin
    * Phenytoin
    * Salicylates (high dose)
    * Warfarin 

Some drugs that can decrease T3RU levels include:

    * Antithyroid medicines
    * Birth control pills
    * Clofibrate
    * Estrogen
    * Thiazides 

Pregnancy can also decrease T3RU levels.

These things can increase thyroxin binding globulin (TBG) levels (see below
section "Why the Test is Performed" for more about TBG):

    * Male hormones (androgens)
    * Serious illness
    * Kidney disease 

Other medicines that bind to protein in the blood can also affect test results

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or a slight bruise. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is done to check your thyroid function. Thyroid function depends on
the action of many different hormones, including thyroid-stimulating hormone
(TSH), T3, and T4.

This test helps check the amount of T3 that thyroxin binding globulin (TBG) is
able to bind. TBG is a protein that carries most of the T3 and T4 in the
blood.

Your provider may recommend a T3RU test if you have signs of a thyroid
disorder, including:

    * Hyperthyroidism (overactive thyroid)
    * Hypothyroidism (underactive thyroid)
    * Thyrotoxic periodic paralysis (muscle weakness caused by high levels of thyroid hormone in the blood) 

## Normal Results

Normal values range from 24% to 37%.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs
use different measurements or test different samples. Talk to your provider
about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Higher-than-normal levels may indicate:

    * Kidney failure
    * Overactive thyroid (hyperthyroidism)
    * Nephrotic syndrome
    * Protein malnutrition

Lower-than-normal levels may indicate:

    * Acute hepatitis (liver disease)
    * Pregnancy
    * Hypothyroidism
    * Use of estrogen 

Abnormal results may also be due to an inherited condition of high TBG levels.
Usually thyroid function is normal in people with this condition.

This test may also be done for:

    * Chronic thyroiditis (swelling or inflammation of the thyroid gland, including Hashimoto disease)
    * Drug-induced hypothyroidism
    * Graves disease
    * Subacute thyroiditis
    * Thyrotoxic periodic paralysis
    * Toxic nodular goiter

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken.Veins and arteries
vary in size from one person to another and from one side of the body to the
other. Obtaining a blood sample from some people may be more difficult than
from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Hematoma (blood buildup under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

## Alternative Names

Resin T3 uptake; T3 resin uptake; Thyroid hormone-binding ratio

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9879t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Guber HA, Farag AF. Evaluation of endocrine function. In: McPherson RA, Pincus
MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_.
23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 24.

Salvatore D, Davies TF, Schlumberger MJ, Hay ID, Larsen PR. Thyroid physiology
and diagnostic evaluation of patients with thyroid disorders. In: Melmed S,
Polonsky KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of
Endocrinology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 11.

Weiss RE, Refetoff S. Thyroid function testing. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ,
de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 78.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hyperthyroidism](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hyperthyroidism_thumb.jpg)Hyperthyroidism
_Read more_

![Thyroid
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ThyroidDiseases_thumb.jpg)Thyroid
Diseases _Read more_

![Thyroid Tests](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ThyroidTests_thumb.jpg)Thyroid
Tests _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

