Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000309.htm    
                                Description: Factitious hyperthyroidism is higher-than-normal thyroid hormone levels in the blood and symptoms that suggest hyperthyroidism. It occurs from taking too much thyroid hormone medicine.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Factitious hyperthyroidism

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000309.htm

# Factitious hyperthyroidism

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Factitious hyperthyroidism is higher-than-normal thyroid hormone levels in the
blood and symptoms that suggest hyperthyroidism. It occurs from taking too
much thyroid hormone medicine.

Hyperthyroidism is also known as overactive thyroid.

## Causes

The thyroid gland produces the hormones thyroxine (T4) and triiodothyronine
(T3). In most cases of hyperthyroidism, the thyroid gland itself produces too
much of these hormones.

Hyperthyroidism can also be caused by taking too much thyroid hormone medicine
for hypothyroidism. This is called factitious hyperthyroidism. When this
occurs because the prescribed dosage of hormone medicine is too high, it is
called iatrogenic, or doctor-induced, hyperthyroidism.

Factitious hyperthyroidism can also occur when someone takes too much thyroid
hormone on purpose. These may be people:

    * Who have mental disorders such as Munchausen syndrome
    * Who are trying to lose weight
    * Who are being treated for depression or infertility
    * Who want to get money from the insurance company

Children may take thyroid hormone pills accidentally.

In rare cases, factitious hyperthyroidism is caused by eating meat that has
thyroid gland tissue in it.

## Symptoms

The symptoms of factitious hyperthyroidism are the same as those of
hyperthyroidism caused by a thyroid gland disorder, except that:

    * There is no goiter. The thyroid gland is often small.
    * The eyes do not bulge, as they do in Graves disease (the most common type of hyperthyroidism).
    * The skin over the shins does not thicken, as it sometimes does in people who have Graves disease.

## Exams and Tests

Blood tests used to diagnoseÂ factitious hyperthyroidism include:

    * Free T4
    * Thyroglobulin
    * Total T3
    * Total T4
    * TSH

Other tests that may be done include radioactive iodine uptake or thyroid
ultrasound.

## Treatment

Your health care provider will tell you to stop taking thyroid hormone. If you
need to take it, your provider will reduce the dosage.

You should be re-checked in 2 to 4 weeks to be sure that the signs and
symptoms are gone. This also helps to confirm the diagnosis.

People with Munchausen syndrome will need mental health treatment and follow-
up.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Factitious hyperthyroidism will clear up on its own when you stop taking or
lower the dosage of thyroid hormone.

## Possible Complications

When factitious hyperthyroidism lasts a long time, the same complicationsÂ as
untreated or improperly treated hyperthyroidism may develop:

    * Abnormal heartbeat (atrial fibrillation)
    * Chest pain (angina)
    * Heart attack
    * Loss of bone mass (if severe, osteoporosis)
    * Weight loss
    * Infertility
    * Problems sleeping

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your provider if you have symptoms of hyperthyroidism.

## Prevention

Thyroid hormone should be taken only by prescription and under the supervision
of a provider.

## Alternative Names

Factitious thyrotoxicosis; Thyrotoxicosis factitia; Thyrotoxicosis
medicamentosa; Factitious hyperthyroxinemia

## Images

    * ![Thyroid gland](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8966t.jpg)Thyroid gland

## References

Davies TF, Laurberg P, Bahn RS. Hyperthyroid disorders. In: Melmed S, Polonsky
KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_. 13th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 12.

Kopp P. Autonomously functioning thyroid nodules and other causes of
thyrotoxicosis. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds.
_Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 85.

## Review Date 5/15/2018

Updated by: Robert Hurd, MD, Professor of Endocrinology and Health Care
Ethics, Xavier University, Cincinnati, OH. Review provided by VeriMed
Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hyperthyroidism](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hyperthyroidism_thumb.jpg)Hyperthyroidism
_Read more_

![Hypothyroidism](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hypothyroidism_thumb.jpg)Hypothyroidism
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

