Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003517.htm    
                                Description: T4 (thyroxine) is the main hormone produced by the thyroid gland. A laboratory test can be done to measure the amount of free T4 in your blood.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Free T4 test

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003517.htm

# Free T4 test

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

T4 (thyroxine) is the main hormone produced by the thyroid gland. A laboratory
test can be done to measure the amount of free T4 in your blood.

## How the Test is Performed

A blood sample is needed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Your health care provider will tell you if you need to stop taking any
medicines that may affect the test result. In general, test results are not
affected by other medicines you may be taking. However, certain supplements
including biotin (vitamin B7) can affect the results. Tell your provider if
you are taking biotin.

Pregnancy and some diseases, including kidney and liver disease, can also
affect the results of this test.

## How the Test will Feel

When the needle is inserted to draw blood, some people feel moderate pain.
Others feel only a prick or stinging. Afterward, there may be some throbbing
or a slight bruise. This soon goes away.

## Why the Test is Performed

Your provider may recommend this test if you have signs of a thyroid disorder,
including:

    * Abnormal findings of other thyroid blood tests, such as TSH or T3
    * Symptoms of an overactive thyroid
    * Symptoms of an underactive thyroid
    * Hypopituitarism (the pituitary gland does not produce enough of its hormones)
    * Lump or nodule in the thyroid
    * Enlarged or irregular thyroid gland
    * Problems becoming pregnant 

This test is also used to monitor people who are being treated for thyroid
problems.

## Normal Results

A typical normalÂ range is 0.9 to 2.3 nanograms per deciliter (ng/dL), or 12
to 30 picomoles per liter (pmol/L).

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some
laboratories use different measurements or may test different specimens. Talk
to your provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

To fully understand results of the free T4 test, results of other thyroid
blood tests, such as TSH or T3, may be needed.

Test results may also be affected by pregnancy, estrogen level, liver
problems, more severe body-wide illnesses, and inherited changes in a protein
that binds T4.

A higher than normal level of T4 may be due to conditions that involve an
overactive thyroid, including:

    * Graves disease
    * Taking too much thyroid hormone medicine
    * Thyroiditis
    * Toxic goiter or toxic thyroid nodules
    * Some tumors of the testes or ovaries (rare)
    * Getting medical imaging tests with contrast dye that contains iodine (rare, and only if there is a problem with the thyroid)
    * Eating a lot of foods that contain iodine (very rare, and only if there is a problem with the thyroid) 

A lower than normal level of T4 may be due to:

    * Hypothyroidism (including Hashimoto disease and other disorders involving an underactive thyroid)
    * Severe acute illness
    * Malnutrition or fasting
    * Use of certain medicines 

## Risks

There is little risk involved with having your blood taken.Â Veins and
arteries vary in size from one person to another and from one side of the body
to the other. Obtaining a blood sample from some people may be more difficult
than from others.

Other risks associated with having blood drawn are slight, but may include:

    * Excessive bleeding
    * Fainting or feeling lightheaded
    * Multiple punctures to locate veins
    * Hematoma (blood buildup under the skin)
    * Infection (a slight risk any time the skin is broken)

## Alternative Names

Thyroxine test; Total T4 test

## Images

    * ![Blood test](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10026t.jpg)Blood test

## References

Guber HA, Farag AF. Evaluation of endocrine function. In: McPherson RA, Pincus
MR, eds. _Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_.
23rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 24.

Salvatore D, Davies TF, Schlumberger MJ, Hay ID, Larsen PR. Thyroid physiology
and diagnostic evaluation of patients with thyroid disorders. In: Melmed S,
Polonsky KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of
Endocrinology_. 12th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 11.

Weiss RE, Refetoff S. Thyroid function testing. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ,
de Kretser DM, et al, eds. E _ndocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 78.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hyperthyroidism](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hyperthyroidism_thumb.jpg)Hyperthyroidism
_Read more_

![Hypothyroidism](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hypothyroidism_thumb.jpg)Hypothyroidism
_Read more_

![Enfermedades de la glÃ¡ndula
pituitaria](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PituitaryDisorders_thumb.jpg)Pituitary
Disorders _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

