Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003829.htm    
                                Description: A thyroid scan uses a radioactive iodine tracer to examine the structure and function of the thyroid gland. This test is often done together with a radioactive iodine uptake test.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Thyroid scan

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003829.htm

# Thyroid scan

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A thyroid scan uses a radioactive iodine tracer to examine the structure and
function of the thyroid gland. This test is often done together with a
radioactive iodine uptake test.

## How the Test is Performed

The test is done in this way:

    * You are given a pill that contains a tiny amount of radioactive iodine. After swallowing it, you wait as the iodine collects in your thyroid.
    * The first scan is usually done 4 to 6 hours after you take the iodine pill. Another scan is usually done 24 hours later. During the scan, you lie on your back on a movable table. Your neck and chest are positioned under the scanner. You must lie still so that the scanner gets a clear image. 

The scanner detects the location and intensity of the rays given off by the
radioactive material. A computer displays images of the thyroid gland. Other
scans use a substance called technetium instead of radioactive iodine.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Follow instructions about not eating before the test. You may be told not to
eat after the midnight before your scan.

Tell your health care provider if you are taking anything that contains iodine
because it may affect your test results. This includes some medicines,
including thyroid drugs. Supplements such as kelp also contain iodine.

Also tell your provider if you have:

    * Diarrhea (may decrease absorption of the radioactive iodine)
    * Had recent CT scans using intravenous or oral iodine-based contrast (within the past 2 weeks)
    * Too little or too much iodine in your diet 

Remove jewelry, dentures, or other metals because they may interfere with the
image.

## How the Test will Feel

Some people find it uncomfortable to stay still during the test.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test is done to:

    * Evaluate thyroid nodules or goiter
    * Find the cause of an overactive thyroid gland
    * Check for thyroid cancer (rarely, since other tests are more accurate for this) 

## Normal Results

Normal test results will show that the thyroid appears to be the correct size,
shape, and in the proper location. It is an even gray color on the computer
image without darker or lighter areas.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

A thyroid that is enlarged or pushed off to one side could be a sign of a
tumor.

Nodules absorb more or less iodine and this will make them look darker or
lighter on the scan. A nodule is usually lighter if it has not taken up the
iodine. If part of the thyroid appears lighter, it could be a thyroid problem.
Nodules that are darker have taken up more iodine. They can be overactive and
may be the cause of an overactive thyroid.

The computer will also show the percentage of iodine that has collected in
your thyroid gland (radioiodine uptake). If your gland collects too much
iodine, it may be due to an overactive thyroid. If your gland collects too
little iodine, it may be due to an inflammation or other damage to the
thyroid.

## Risks

All radiation has possible side effects. The amount of radioactivity is very
small, and there have been no documented side effects.

Women who are pregnant or breastfeeding should not have this test.

Talk to your provider if you have concerns about this test.

## Considerations

The radioactive iodine leaves your body through your urine. You should not
need to take special precautions, such as flushing twice after urinating, for
24 to 48 hours after the test because the dose of radioactive iodine is very
low. Ask your provider or the radiology/nuclear medicine team performing the
scan about taking precautions.

## Alternative Names

Scan - thyroid; Radioactive iodine uptake and scan test - thyroid; Nuclear
scan - thyroid; Thyroid nodule - scan; Goiter - scan; Hyperthyroidism - scan

## Images

    * ![Thyroid enlargement - scintiscan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1206t.jpg)Thyroid enlargement - scintiscan
    * ![Thyroid gland](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8966t.jpg)Thyroid gland

## References

Blum M. Thyroid imaging. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al,
eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 79.

Salvatore D, Davies TF, Schlumberger M-J, Hay ID, Larsen PR. Thyroid
physiology and diagnostic evaluation of patients with thyroid disorders. In:
Melmed S, Polonsky KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of
Endocrinology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 11.

## Review Date 2/22/2018

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Hyperthyroidism](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hyperthyroidism_thumb.jpg)Hyperthyroidism
_Read more_

![Hypothyroidism](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hypothyroidism_thumb.jpg)Hypothyroidism
_Read more_

![Nuclear Scans](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NuclearScans_thumb.jpg)Nuclear
Scans _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

