Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003033.htm    
                                Description: Bulging eyes is the abnormal protrusion (bulging out) of one or both eyeballs.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Eyes - bulging

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003033.htm

# Eyes - bulging

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Bulging eyes is the abnormal protrusion (bulging out) of one or both eyeballs.

## Considerations

Prominent eyes may be a family trait. But prominent eyes are not the same as
bulging eyes. Bulging eyes should be checked by a health care provider.

Bulging of one eye, especially in a child, can be a very serious sign. It
should be checked right away.

Hyperthyroidism (particularly Graves disease) is the most common medical cause
of bulging eyes. With this condition, the eyes do not blink often and seem to
have a staring quality.

Normally, there should be no visible white between the top of the iris (the
colored part of the eye) and the upper eyelid. Seeing white in this area most
often is a sign that the eye is bulging.

Because eye changes most often develop slowly, family members may not notice
it until the condition is fairly advanced. Photos often draw attention to the
bulging when it may have gone unnoticed before.

## Causes

Causes may include:

    * Glaucoma
    * Graves disease
    * Hemangioma
    * Histiocytosis
    * Hyperthyroidism
    * Leukemia
    * Neuroblastoma
    * Orbital cellulitis or periorbital cellulitis
    * Rhabdomyosarcoma

## Home Care

The cause needs to be treated by a provider. Because bulging eyes can cause a
person to be self-conscious, emotional support is important.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You have bulging eyes and the cause has not yet been diagnosed.
    * Bulging eyes are accompanied by other symptoms such as pain or fever.

The provider will ask about your medical history and do a physical exam.

Some questions you may be asked include:

    * Are both eyes bulging?
    * When did you first notice bulging eyes?
    * Is it getting worse?
    * What other symptoms do you have?

A slit-lamp examination may be done. Blood testing for thyroid disease may be
done.

Treatments depend on the cause. Artificial tears may be given to lubricate the
eye to protect its surface (cornea).

## Alternative Names

Protruding eyes; Exophthalmos; Proptosis; Bulging eyes

## Images

    * ![Graves disease](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17067t.jpg)Graves disease
    * ![Goiter](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17071t.jpg)Goiter
    * ![Periorbital cellulitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17283t.jpg)Periorbital cellulitis

## References

McNab AA. Proptosis at different ages. In: Lambert SR, Lyons CJ, eds. _Taylor
and Hoyt's Pediatric Ophthalmology and Strabismus_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 96.

Olson J. Medical ophthalmology. In: Ralston SH, Penman ID, Strachan MWJ,
Hobson RP, eds. _Davidson's Principles and Practice of Medicine_. 23rd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 27.

Yanoff M, Cameron JD. Diseases of the visual system. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 423.

## Review Date 1/19/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Eye Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EyeDiseases_thumb.jpg)Eye
Diseases _Read more_

![Hyperthyroidism](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hyperthyroidism_thumb.jpg)Hyperthyroidism
_Read more_

![Thyroid
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ThyroidDiseases_thumb.jpg)Thyroid
Diseases _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

