Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000763.htm    
                                Description: Being physically active is one of the best things you can do for your heart. Regular exercise helps reduce your risk for heart disease and adds years to your life.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Give your heart a workout

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000763.htm

# Give your heart a workout

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Being physically active is one of the best things you can do for your heart.
Regular exercise helps reduce your risk for heart disease and adds years to
your life.

You do not need to spend hours in the gym every day to see benefits. Moving
your body just 30 minutes a day is enough to improve your heart health.

If you have diabetes or heart disease, talk to your health care provider
before starting an exercise program.

## The Benefits of Exercise

Exercise helps your heart in several ways.

    *  **Burns calories.** This can help you lose extra pounds (kilograms) or stay at a healthy weight. Being overweight is a major risk factor for heart disease.
    *  **Lowers blood pressure.** Doing some type of moderate aerobic exercise, for 30 to 60 minutes on most days of the week, can help lower blood pressure. High blood pressure is another major risk factor for heart disease.
    *  **Reduces stress.** Regular exercise is a proven stress buster. Experts are not sure if stress plays a direct role in heart disease. But it may contribute to other risk factors.
    *  **Lowerscholesterol.** Exercise can lower your LDL ("bad" cholesterol level). A high LDL level is a major risk factor for heart disease. 

## The Best Activities for Your Heart

When done properly, any kind of exercise can be good for your body. But
aerobic exercise is the best type for your heart. Aerobic exercise is any
activity that uses the large muscles in your body and gets your heart beating
faster.

To benefit your heart, experts recommend getting at least 30 minutes of
moderate aerobic exercise on most days. This is about 2.5 hours a week. You
can also break this up into a few 10- or 15-minute sessions each day. Moderate
aerobic exercises include:

    * Dancing
    * Hiking on flat ground
    * Bicycling at less than 10 mph
    * Moderate walking (about 3.5 mph)
    * Golf (not using a cart)
    * Downhill skiing
    * Tennis (doubles)
    * Softball
    * Swimming
    * Gardening
    * Light yard work 

For even more heart benefits, consider adding some vigorous activity to your
week. If all your exercise is vigorous, aim to get at least 75 minutes each
week. Vigorous aerobic exercises include:

    * Brisk walking (about 4.5 mph)
    * Bicycling at more than 10 mph
    * Hiking uphill
    * Cross-country skiing
    * Stair climbing
    * Soccer
    * Jogging
    * Jumping rope
    * Tennis (singles)
    * Basketball
    * Heavy yard work 

## Track the Intensity of Your Workout

You can tell if your workout is moderate or vigorous by paying attention to
how your body feels while you exercise.

The Borg Rating of Perceived Exertion Scale ranks exertion from 6 to 20.
During exercise, choose the number that best describes how hard you are
working.

    * 6 = No exertion
    * 7 = Extremely light
    * 8
    * 9 = Very light, such as slow walking or easy chores
    * 10
    * 11 = Light
    * 12
    * 13 = Somewhat hard, requires effort but doesn't make you out of breath
    * 14
    * 15 = Hard
    * 16
    * 17 = Very hard, you really have to push yourself
    * 18
    * 19 = Extremely hard, the highest level of exercise you can keep up
    * 20 = Maximal exertion 

A moderate level of exercise is usually from 12 to 14. Vigorous exercise is
usually a 15 or higher. You can adjust the level of your workout by slowing
down or speeding up.

## Track Your Target Heart Rate

To see the direct effects of exercise on your heart, track your target heart
rate, which is about 50% to 85% of your maximum heart rate, based on your age.
This range gives your heart the most benefit.

To find your target heart rate:

    * Take a brief break from exercising to take your pulse. To measure your pulse at the wrist, place your index and middle fingers on the inside of your opposite wrist, below the base of the thumb. To measure your pulse at the neck, place your index and middle fingers to the side of the Adam's apple.
    * Count the number of beats you feel for 10 seconds.
    * Multiply this number by 6 to give you the beats per minute. 

Find your age and target heart rate:

    * 20 years old -- 100 to 170 beats per minute
    * 30 years old -- 95 to 162 beats per minute
    * 35 years old -- 93 to 157 beats per minute
    * 40 years old -- 90 to 153 beats per minute
    * 45 years old -- 88 to 149 beats per minute
    * 50 years old -- 85 to 145 beats per minute
    * 55 years old -- 83 to 140 beats per minute
    * 60 years old -- 80 to 136 beats per minute
    * 65 years old -- 78 to 132 beats per minute
    * 70 years old -- 75 to 128 beats per minute 

To find your approximate maximum heart rate, subtract your age from 220.

**For moderate intensity exercise** , your target heart rate should be 50% to
70% of your maximum heart rate.

 **For vigorous exercise** , your target heart rate should be 70% to 85% of
your maximum heart rate.

When you first start exercising, aim for the lower number for your age range.
As you get fitter, you can slowly work towards the higher number.

If your heart rate is lower than your target heart rate, you may not be
exercising hard enough to benefit your heart. If your heart rate is higher
than your target, you may be exercising too hard.

Some blood pressure medicines can lower your target heart rate. If you take
medicine for high blood pressure, ask your doctor what range is healthy for
you.

## When to Call the Doctor

If it's been a while since you were active, you should check with your
provider before starting any new activity. Also, to make sure you are healthy
enough for exercise, check with your provider if you have:

    * High blood pressure
    * Diabetes
    * A heart condition
    * Another health problem 

## Alternative Names

Exercise - heart workout; CAD prevention - workout; Cardiovascular disease
prevention - workout

## References

American Heart Association website. Target heart rates.
healthyforgood.heart.org/move-more/articles/target-heart-rates. Updated
January 4, 2018. Accessed May 15, 2018.

Borg GA. Psychophysical bases of perceived exertion. _Med Sci Sports Exerc_.
1982;14(5):377-381. PMID: 7154893 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/7154893.

Eckel RH, Jakicic JM, Ard JD, et al. 2013 AHA/ACC guideline on lifestyle
management to reduce cardiovascular risk: a report of the American College of
Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines.
_Circulation_. 2014;129(25 Suppl 2):S76-S99. PMID: 24222015
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24222015.

Stone, NJ, Robinson J Lichtenstein AH, et al. 2013 ACC/AHA guideline on the
treatment of blood cholesterol to reduce atherosclerotic cardiovascular risk
in adults: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart
Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines. _J Am Coll Cardiol_. 2014;63(25
Pt B):2889-2934. PMID: 24239923 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24239923.

Thompson PD, Baggish AL. Exercise and sports cardiology. In: Zipes DP, Libby
P, Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart
Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2019:chap 53.

## Review Date 4/15/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Benefits of Exercise
    * Exercise and Physical Fitness
    * How to Lower Cholesterol
    * How to Prevent Heart Disease

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

