Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007165.htm    
                                Description: Battling another cough or cold? Feeling tired all the time? You may feel better if you take a daily walk or follow a simple exercise routine a few times a week.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Exercise and immunity

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007165.htm

# Exercise and immunity

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Battling another cough or cold? Feeling tired all the time? You may feel
better if you take a daily walk or follow a simple exercise routine a few
times a week.

## Information

Exercise helps decrease your chances of developing heart disease. It also
keeps your bones healthy and strong.

We do not know exactly if or how exercise increases your immunity to certain
illnesses. There are several theories. However, none of these theories have
been proven. Some of these theories are:

    * Physical activity may help flush bacteria out of the lungs and airways. This may reduce your chance of getting a cold, flu, or other illness.
    * Exercise causes change in antibodies and white blood cells (WBC). WBCs are the body's immune system cells that fight disease. These antibodies or WBCs circulate more rapidly, so they could detect illnesses earlier than they might have before. However, no one knows whether these changes help prevent infections.
    * The brief rise in body temperature during and right after exercise may prevent bacteria from growing. This temperature rise may help the body fight infection better. (This is similar to what happens when you have a fever.)
    * Exercise slows down the release of stress hormones. Some stress increases the chance of illness. Lower stress hormones may protect against illness. 

Exercise is good for you, but, you should not overdo it. People who already
exercise should not exercise more just to increase their immunity. Heavy,
long-term exercise (such as marathon running and intense gym training) could
actually cause harm.

Studies have shown that people who follow a moderately energetic lifestyle,
benefit most from starting (and sticking to) an exercise program. A moderate
program can consist of:

    * Bicycling with your children a few times a week
    * Taking daily 20 to 30 minute walks
    * Going to the gym every other day
    * Playing golf regularly 

Exercise makes you feel healthier and more energetic. It can help you feel
better about yourself. So go ahead, take that aerobics class or go for that
walk. You will feel better and healthier for it.

There is no strong evidence to prove that taking immune supplements along with
exercising lowers the chance of illness or infections.

## Images

    * ![Yoga](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19301t.jpg)Yoga
    * ![Benefit of regular exercise](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19388t.jpg)Benefit of regular exercise
    * ![Exercise 30 minutes a day](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19475t.jpg)Exercise 30 minutes a day
    * ![Flexibility exercise](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19391t.jpg)Flexibility exercise

## References

Abalos KC, Petri WA. Infectious disease and sports. In: Miller MD, Thompson
SR, eds. _DeLee & Drez's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine_. 4th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 20.

Asplund CA, Best TM. Exercise physiology. In: Miller MD, Thompson SR, eds.
_DeLee & Drez's Orthopaedic Sports Medicine_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 7.

Harrast MA, Laker SR, Maslowski E, De Luigi AJ. Sports medicine and adaptive
sports. In: Cifu DX, ed. _Braddom's Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation_. 5th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 39.

Lanfranco F, Ghigo E, Strasburger CJ. Hormones and athletic performance. In:
Melmed S, Polonsky KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of
Endocrinology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 26.

## Review Date 1/14/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Benefits of
Exercise](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BenefitsOfExercise_thumb.jpg)Benefits
of Exercise _Read more_

![Immune System and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ImmuneSystemandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Immune
System and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

