Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000477.htm    
                                Description: Interstitial cystitis is a long-term (chronic) problem in which pain, pressure, or burning is present in the bladder. It is often associated with urinary frequency or urgency. It is also called painful    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Interstitial cystitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000477.htm

# Interstitial cystitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Interstitial cystitis is a long-term (chronic) problem in which pain,
pressure, or burning is present in the bladder. It is often associated with
urinary frequency or urgency. It is also called painful bladder syndrome.

## Causes

The bladder is a hollow organ with a thin layer of muscle that stores urine.
When your bladder fills up with urine, it sends a signal to your brain,
telling the muscles to squeeze. Under normal conditions, these signals are not
painful. If you have interstitial cystitis, the signals from the bladder are
painful and may occur even when the bladder is not full.

The condition most often occurs between ages 20 to 40, although it has been
reported in younger people.

Women are 10 times more likely to have IC than men.

The exact cause of this condition is unknown.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of IC are chronic. Symptoms tend to come and go with periods of
lesser or worse severity. Common symptoms include:

    * Bladder pressure or discomfort (mild to severe)
    * Urge to urinate often
    * Burning pain in the pelvic area
    * Pain during intercourse 

Many people who have long-term interstitial cystitis may also have other
conditions such as endometriosis, fibromyalgia, irritable bowel syndrome,
other chronic pain syndromes, anxiety, or depression.

## Exams and Tests

Your health care provider will look for other causes of your symptoms. These
include:

    * Sexually transmitted infections
    * Bladder cancer
    * Bladder infections
    * Kidney or ureteral stones 

Tests are done on your urine to look for infection or cells that suggest
cancer inside the bladder. During a cystoscopy, the provider uses a special
tube with a small camera on the end to look inside your bladder. A sample or
biopsy of the lining of your bladder may be taken.

Tests at your provider's office may also be done to show how well your bladder
fills and how well it empties.

## Treatment

There is no cure for IC, and there are no standard treatments. Treatment is
based on trial and error until you find relief. Results vary from person to
person.

DIET AND LIFESTYLE CHANGES

Some people find that making changes in their diet can help control symptoms.
Try to avoid foods and beverages that can cause bladder irritation. Stop
eating certain foods, one at a time, to see if your symptoms get better.
Reduce or stop consuming caffeine, chocolate, carbonated beverages, citrus
drinks, and spicy or acidic foods (such as those with high levels of vitamin
C).

Other foods that the Interstitial Cystitis Association lists as possibly
causing bladder irritation are:

    * Aged cheeses
    * Alcohol
    * Artificial sweeteners
    * Fava and lima beans
    * Meats that are cured, processed, smoked, canned, aged, or that contain nitrites
    * Acidic fruitsÂ (except blueberries, honeydew melon, and pears, which are OK.)
    * Nuts, except almonds, cashews, and pine nuts
    * Onions
    * Rye bread
    * Seasonings that contain MSG
    * Sour cream
    * Sourdough bread
    * Soy
    * Tea
    * Tofu
    * Tomatoes
    * Yogurt 

You and your provider should discuss methods you can use for bladder training.
These may include training yourself to urinate at specific times or using
pelvic floor physical therapy and biofeedback to relieve pelvic floor muscle
tension and spasms.

MEDICINE AND PROCEDURES

Combination therapy may include medicines such as:

    * Pentosan polysulfate sodium, the only medicine taken by mouth that is approved for treating IC
    * Tricyclic antidepressants, such as amitriptyline, to relieve pain and urinary frequency
    * Vistaril (hydroxyzine pamoate), an antihistamine that can help reduce inflammation. It can cause sedation as a side effect

Other therapies include:

    * Over-filling the bladder with fluid while under general anesthesia, called bladder hydrodistention
    * Medicines placed directly into the bladder, including dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO), heparin, or lidocaine
    * Bladder removal (cystectomy) for extremely difficult cases, whichÂ is rarely done anymore

## Support Groups

Some people may benefit from taking part in interstitial cystitis support
groups, such as Interstitial Cystitis Association:
www.ichelp.org/support/support-groups/ and others.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Treatment results vary. Some people respond well to simple treatments and
dietary changes. Others may require extensive treatments or surgery.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of interstitial cystitis. Be sure to
mention that you suspect this disorder. It is not well recognized or easily
diagnosed. It is often confused with having repeated urinary tract infection.

## Alternative Names

Cystitis - interstitial; IC

## Images

    * ![Female urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1122t.jpg)Female urinary tract
    * ![Male urinary tract](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1123t.jpg)Male urinary tract

## References

Grochmal SA. Office testing and treatment options for interstitial cystitis
(painful bladder syndrome). In: Fowler GC, ed. _Pfenninger and Fowler's
Procedures for Primary Care_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap
98.

Hanno PM. Bladder pain syndrome (interstitial cystitis) and related disorders.
In: Wein AJ, Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_.
11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 14.

Hanno PM, Erickson D, Moldwin R, Faraday MM, et al. Diagnosis and treatment of
interstitial cystitis/bladder pain syndrome: AUA guideline amendment. _J
Urol_. 2015;193(5):1545-53. PMID: 25623737
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25623737.

Kirby AC, Lentz GM. Lower urinary tract function and disorders: physiology of
micturition, voiding dysfunction, urinary incontinence, urinary tract
infections, and painful bladder syndrome. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz
GM, Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 21.

## Review Date 4/2/2019

Updated by: Sovrin M. Shah, MD, Assistant Professor, Department of Urology,
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Review provided by
VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Cistitis
intersticial](https://medlineplus.gov/images/InterstitialCystitis_thumb.jpg)Interstitial
Cystitis _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

