Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003939.htm    
                                Description: A vesicle is a small fluid-filled blister on the skin.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Vesicles

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003939.htm

# Vesicles

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A vesicle is a small fluid-filled blister on the skin.

## Considerations

A vesicle is small. It may be as tiny as the top of a pin or up to 5
millimeters wide.Â A larger blister is called a bulla.

In many cases, vesicles break easily and release their fluid onto the skin.
When this fluid dries, yellow crusts may remain on the skin surface.

## Causes

Many diseases and conditions can cause vesicles. Common examples include:

    * Allergic reactions to drugs
    * Atopic dermatitis (eczema)
    * Autoimmune disorders such as bullous pemphigoid or pemphigus
    * Blistering skin diseases including porphyria cutanea tarda and dermatitis herpetiformis
    * Chickenpox
    * Contact dermatitis (may be caused by poison ivy)
    * Herpes simplex (cold sores, genital herpes)
    * Herpes zoster (shingles)
    * Bacterial infections
    * Fungal infections
    * Burns
    * Friction
    * Treatment with cryotherapy (to treat a wart for example)

## Home Care

It is best to have your health care provider examine any skin rashes,
including vesicles.

Over-the-counter treatments are available for certain conditions that cause
vesicles, including poison ivy and cold sores.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have any unexplained blisters on your skin.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will look at your skin. Some vesicles can be diagnosed simply by
how they look.

In many cases, additional tests are needed. The fluid inside a blister may be
sent to a lab for closer examination. In particularly difficult cases, a skin
biopsy may be needed to make or confirm a diagnosis.

Treatment will depend on the cause of the vesicles.

## Alternative Names

Blisters

## Images

    * ![Bullous pemphigoid - close-up of tense blisters](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1531t.jpg)Bullous pemphigoid - close-up of tense blisters
    * ![Chigger bite - close-up of blisters](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2046t.jpg)Chigger bite - close-up of blisters
    * ![Hand, foot, and mouth disease on the soles](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2157t.jpg)Hand, foot, and mouth disease on the soles
    * ![Herpes simplex - close-up](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2161t.jpg)Herpes simplex - close-up
    * ![Herpes zoster \(shingles\) - close-up of lesion](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2163t.jpg)Herpes zoster (shingles) - close-up of lesion
    * ![Poison ivy on the knee](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2567t.jpg)Poison ivy on the knee
    * ![Poison ivy on the leg](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2568t.jpg)Poison ivy on the leg
    * ![Vesicles](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8985t.jpg)Vesicles

## References

Habif TP. Vesicular and bullous diseases. In: Habif TP, ed. _Clinical
Dermatology: A Color Guide to Diagnosis and Therapy_. 6th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 16.

Marks JG, Miller JJ. Vesicles and bullae. In: Marks JG, Miller JJ, eds.
_Lookingbill and Marks' Principles of Dermatology_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2019:chap 10.

## Review Date 4/16/2019

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Blisters](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Blisters_thumb.jpg)Blisters _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

