Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000447.htm    
                                Description: Personal protective equipment is special equipment you wear to create a barrier between you and germs. This barrier reduces the chance of touching, being exposed to, and spreading germs.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Personal protective equipment

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000447.htm

# Personal protective equipment

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Personal protective equipment is special equipment you wear to create a
barrier between you and germs. This barrier reduces the chance of touching,
being exposed to, and spreading germs.

Personal protective equipment (PPE) helps prevent the spread of germs in the
hospital. This can protect people and health care workers from infections.

All hospital staff, patients, and visitors should use PPE when there will be
contact with blood or other bodily fluids.

## Types of PPE

**Wearing gloves** protects your hands from germs and helps reduce the spread
of germs.

 **Masks** cover your mouth and nose.

    * Some masks have a see-through plastic part that covers your eyes.
    * A surgical mask helps stop germs in your nose and mouth from spreading. It can also keep you from breathing in some germs.
    * A special respiratory mask (respirator) forms a tight seal around your nose and mouth. It may be needed so that you do not breathe in small germs like tuberculosis bacteria. 

**Eye protection** includes face shields and goggles. These protect the mucous
membranes in your eyes from blood and other bodily fluids. If these fluids
make contact with the eyes, germs in the fluid can enter the body through the
mucous membranes.

 **Clothing** includes gowns, aprons, head covering, and shoe covers.

    * These are often used during surgery to protect you and the patient.
    * They are also used during surgery to protect you when you work with bodily fluids.
    * Visitors wear gowns if they are visiting a person who is in isolation due to an illness that can be easily spread. 

You may need special PPE when handling some cancer drugs. This equipment is
called cytotoxic PPE.

    * You may need to wear a gown with long sleeves and elastic cuffs. This gown should keep liquids from touching your skin.
    * You may also need to wear shoe covers, goggles, and special gloves. 

## Choose the Right PPE

You may need to use different types of PPE for different people. Your
workplace has written instructions about when to wear PPE and what type to
use. You need PPE when you care for people who are in isolation as well as
other patients.

Ask your supervisor how you can learn more about protective equipment.

## After you use PPE

Remove and dispose of PPE safely to protect others from being exposed to
germs. Before leaving your work area, remove all PPE and put it in the right
place. This may include:

    * Special laundry containers that can be reused after cleaning
    * Special waste containers that are different from other waste containers
    * Specially marked bags for cytotoxic PPE 

## Alternative Names

PPE

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Personal protective
equipment. www.cdc.gov/niosh/ppe. Updated February 2, 2018. Accessed February
21, 2018.

Holland MG, Cawthon D. Personal protective equipment and decontamination of
adults and children. _Emerg Med Clin North Am_. 2015;33(1):51-68. PMID:
25455662 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25455662.

## Review Date 11/20/2017

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Germs and Hygiene
    * Infection Control
    * Occupational Health for Health Care Providers

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

