Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/004003.htm    
                                Description: Spermicides and vaginal sponges are two over-the-counter birth control methods used during sex to prevent pregnancy. Over-the-counter means that they can be purchased without a prescription.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Vaginal sponge and spermicides

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/004003.htm

# Vaginal sponge and spermicides

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Spermicides and vaginal sponges are two over-the-counter birth control methods
used during sex to prevent pregnancy. Over-the-counter means that they can be
purchased without a prescription.

## Information

Spermicides and vaginal sponges do not work as well at preventing pregnancy as
some other forms of birth control. However, using a spermicide or sponge is
much better than not using birth control at all.

SPERMICIDES

Spermicides are chemicals that stop sperm from moving. They come as gels,
foams, creams, or suppositories. They are inserted into the vagina before sex.
You can buy spermicides in most drug and grocery stores.

    * Spermicides alone do not work very well. About 15 pregnancies occur out of every 100 women who correctly use this method alone over 1 year. 
    * If spermicides are not used correctly, the risk of pregnancy is more than 25 for every 100 women each year.
    * Using spermicides along with other methods, such as male or female condoms or the diaphragm, will reduce the chance of pregnancy even more.
    * Even by using a spermicide alone, however, you are still much less likely to become pregnant than if you did not use any birth control.

How to use spermicide:

    * Using your fingers or applicator, place the spermicide deep into the vagina 10 minutes before having sex. It should continue to work for about 60 minutes.
    * You will need to use more spermicide every time you have sex.
    * DO NOT douche for at least 6 hours after sex. (Douching is never recommended, as it can cause infection in the uterus and tubes.)

Spermicides do not reduce your chance of an infection. They may increase the
risk of spreading HIV.

Risks include irritation and allergic reactions.

VAGINAL SPONGE

Vaginal contraceptive sponges are soft sponges covered with a spermicide.

A sponge can be inserted into the vagina up to 24 hours before intercourse.

    * Follow the specific instructions that came with the product. 
    * Push the sponge as far back into the vagina as possible, and place it over the cervix. Make sure the sponge covers the cervix.
    * Leave the sponge in the vagina for 6 to 8 hours after having sex.

DO NOT use the sponge if you have:

    * Vaginal bleeding or are having your period
    * An allergy to sulfa drugs, polyurethane, or spermicides
    * An infection in the vagina, cervix, or uterus
    * Had an abortion, miscarriage, or a baby

How well does the sponge work?

    * About 9 to 12 pregnancies occur out of every 100 women who use sponges correctly over 1 year. Sponges are more effective in women who have never given birth.
    * If sponges are not used correctly, the risk of pregnancy is 20 to 25 for every 100 women each year.
    * Using sponges along with male condoms will reduce the chance of pregnancy even more.
    * Even by using a sponge alone, you are still much less likely to become pregnant than if you did not use any birth control at all.

Risks of the vaginal sponge include:

    * Vaginal irritation
    * Allergic reaction
    * Difficulty removing the sponge
    * Toxic shock syndrome (rare)

## Alternative Names

Birth control - over the counter; Contraceptives - over the counter; Family
planning - vaginal sponge; Contraception - vaginal sponge

## References

Harper DM, Wilfling LE, Blanner CF. Contraception. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP,
eds. _Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 26.

Rivlin K, Westhoff C. Family planning. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM,
Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 13.

Winikoff B, Grossman D. Contraception. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 238.

## Review Date 1/14/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Birth Control](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Birthcontrol_thumb.jpg)Birth
Control _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

