Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000656.htm    
                                Description: Oral contraceptives use hormones to prevent pregnancy. Progestin-only pills have only the hormone progestin. They do not have estrogen in them.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Birth control pills - progestin only

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000656.htm

# Birth control pills - progestin only

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Oral contraceptives use hormones to prevent pregnancy. Progestin-only pills
have only the hormone progestin. They do not have estrogen in them.

## What Are Progestin Only Birth Control Pills?

Birth control pills help keep you from getting pregnant. The pills with only
progestin come in 28-day packs. Every pill is active. Each has only progestin,
and no estrogen. These types of birth control pills often are used for women
who have medical reasons that prevent them from taking a combination oral
contraceptive pill (pills that contain progestin and estrogen). Some of the
reasons to take progestin-only birth control pills include:

    * History of migraine headaches
    * Currently breastfeeding
    * History of blood clots

Progestin-only pills are very effective if taken correctly.

Progestin-only pills work by making your mucus too thick for sperm to move
through.

## How do I Start Taking Progestin Pills?

You may start taking these pills any time in your menstrual cycle.

Protection from pregnancy begins after 2 days. If you have sex within the
first 48 hours after your first pill, use another birth control method
(condom, diaphragm, or sponge). This is called backup birth control.

## How do I Take Them?

You must take the progestin-only pill at the same time every day.

Never miss a day of taking your pills.

When you have 2 packs of pills left, call your health care provider for an
appointment to get a refill. The day after you finish a pack of pills you need
to start a new pack.

With these pills you may:

    * Not get periods
    * Bleed a bit on and off through the month
    * Get your period in the fourth week 

## What if I do not Take my Pill on Time?

If you do not take the progestin pill on time, your mucus will start to thin
and you could become pregnant.

When you realize you missed your pill, take it as soon as possible. If it is 3
hours or more since it was due, use a backup birth control method for the next
48 hours after taking the last pill. Then take your next pill at the usual
time. If you had sex in the last 3 to 5 days, consider asking your provider
for emergency contraception. If you have any questions or concerns, call your
provider.

If you vomit after you take a pill, take another pill as soon as possible, and
use a backup birth control method for the next 48 hours.

## What to Expect When I Stop

You may decide to stop taking birth control pills because you want to get
pregnant or you want to change to another birth control method. Here are some
things to expect when you stop taking the pill:

    * You should get your period 4 to 6 weeks after you take your last pill. If you do not get your period in 8 weeks, call your provider.
    * Your period may be heavier or lighter than usual.
    * You may have mild spotting of blood before you get your first period.
    * You might become pregnant right away. 

## When to Use a Backup Method

Use a backup method of birth control, such as a condom, diaphragm, or sponge,
if:

    * You take a pill 3 hours or more after it was due.
    * You miss 1 or more pills.
    * You are sick, throwing up, or have loose stools (diarrhea). Even if you take your pill, your body may not absorb it. Use a backup method of birth control, and call your provider.
    * You are taking another medicine that may prevent the pill from working. Tell your provider or pharmacist if you take any other medicines, such as antibiotics, seizure medicine, medicine to treat HIV, or St. John's wort. Find out if what you take will interfere with how well the pill works. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

    * You have swelling in your leg.
    * You have leg pain.
    * Your leg feels warm to the touch or has changes in skin color.
    * You have fever or chills.
    * You are short of breath and it is hard to breathe.
    * You have chest pain.
    * You cough up blood. 

## Alternative Names

Mini-pill; The pill - progestin; Oral contraceptives - progestin; OCP -
progestin; Contraception - progestin; BCP - progestin

## References

Allen RH, Kaunitz AM, Hickey M. Hormonal contraception. In: Melmed S, Polonsky
KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_. 13th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 18.

Glasier A. Contraception. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al,
eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 134.

Isley MM, Katz VL. Postpartum care and long-term health considerations. In:
Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem
Pregnancies_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 23.

## Review Date 9/25/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Birth Control

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

