Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007460.htm    
                                Description: Birth control pills (BCPs) contain man-made forms of 2 hormones called estrogen and progestin. These hormones are made naturally in a woman    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Birth control pills - overview

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007460.htm

# Birth control pills - overview

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Birth control pills (BCPs) contain man-made forms of 2 hormones called
estrogen and progestin. These hormones are made naturally in a woman's
ovaries. BCPs can contain both of these hormones, or have progestin only.

Both hormones prevent a woman's ovary from releasing an egg during her
menstrual cycle (called ovulation). They do this by changing the levels of the
natural hormones the body makes.

Progestins also make the mucus around a woman's cervix thick and sticky. This
helps prevent sperm from entering the uterus.

## Information

BCPs are also called oral contraceptives or just "the pill." A health care
provider must prescribe BCPs.

    * The most common type of BCP combines the hormones estrogen and progestin. There are many different forms of this type of pill.
    * The "mini-pill" is a type of BCP that contains only progestin, no estrogen. These pills are an option for women who do not like the side effects of estrogen or who cannot take estrogen for medical reasons.
    * They can also be used after delivery in women who are breastfeeding. 

All women who take BCPs need a check-up at least once a year. Women should
also have their blood pressure checked 3 months after they begin to take the
pill.

BCPs only work well if the woman remembers to take her pill daily without
missing a day. Only 2 or 3 women out of 100 who take BCPs correctly for a year
will get pregnant.

BCPs may cause many side effects. These include:

    * Changes in menstrual cycles, no menstrual cycles, extra bleeding
    * Nausea, mood changes, worsening of migraines (mostly due to estrogens)
    * Breast tenderness and weight gain 

Rare but dangerous risks from taking BCPs include:

    * Blood clots
    * Heart attack
    * High blood pressure
    * Stroke 

BCPs without estrogen are much less likely to cause these problems. The risk
is higher for women who smoke or have a history of high blood pressure,
clotting disorders, or unhealthy cholesterol levels. However, the risks of
developing these complications are much lower with either type of pill than
with pregnancy.

Regular menstrual cycles will return within 3 to 6 months after a woman stops
using most hormonal birth control methods.

## Alternative Names

Contraception - pills - hormonal methods; Hormonal birth control methods;
Birth control pills; Contraceptive pills; BCP; OCP; Family planning - BCP;
Estrogen - BCP; Progestin - BCP

## References

Glasier A. Contraception. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al,
eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 134.

Harper DM, Wilfling LE, Blanner CF. Contraception. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP,
eds. _Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 26.

Rivlin K, Westhoff C. Family planning. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM,
Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 13.

Winikoff B, Grossman D. Contraception. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 238.

## Review Date 1/14/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Birth Control](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Birthcontrol_thumb.jpg)Birth
Control _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

