Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007014.htm    
                                Description: Emergency contraception is a birth control method to prevent pregnancy in women. It can be used:    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Emergency contraception

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007014.htm

# Emergency contraception

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Emergency contraception is a birth control method to prevent pregnancy in
women. It can be used:

    * After a sexual assault or rape
    * When a condom breaks or a diaphragm slips out of place
    * When a woman forgets to take birth control pills
    * When you have sex and do not use any birth control
    * When any method of birth control is not used correctly

## Information

Emergency contraception most likely prevents pregnancy in the same way as
regular birth control pills:

    * By preventing or delaying the release of an egg from a woman's ovaries 
    * By preventing the sperm from fertilizing the egg

The two ways you may receive emergency contraception are by:

    * Using pills that contain a man-made (synthetic) form of the hormone progesterone called progestins. This is the most common method.
    * Having an IUD placed inside the uterus.

CHOICES FOR EMERGENCY CONTRACEPTION

Two emergency contraceptive pills may be bought without a prescription.

    * Plan B One-Step is a single tablet.
    * Next Choice is taken as 2 doses. Both pills can be taken at the same time or as 2 separate doses 12 hours apart.
    * Either may be taken for up to 5 days after unprotected intercourse. 

Ulipristal acetate (Ella) is a new type of emergency contraception pill. You
will need a prescription from a health care provider.

    * Ulipristal is taken as a single tablet.
    * It may be taken up to 5 days after unprotected sex. 

Birth control pills may also be used:

    * Talk to your provider about the correct dosage. 
    * In general, you must take 2 to 5 birth control pills at the same time to have the same protection.

IUD placement is another option:

    * It must be inserted by your provider within 5 days of having unprotected sex. The IUD that is used contains a small amount of copper.
    * Your doctor can remove it after your next period. You may also choose to leave it in place to provide ongoing birth control. 

MORE ABOUT EMERGENCY CONTRACEPTIVE PILLS

Women of any age can buy Plan B One-Step and Next Choice at a pharmacy without
a prescription or visit to the doctor.

Emergency contraception works best when you use it within 24 hours of having
sex. However, it may still prevent pregnancy for up to 5 days after you first
had sex.

You should not use emergency contraception if:

    * You think you have been pregnant for several days.
    * You have vaginal bleeding for an unknown reason (talk to your provider first).

Emergency contraception may cause side effects. Most are mild. They may
include:

    * Changes in menstrual bleeding
    * Fatigue
    * Headache
    * Nausea and vomiting 

After you use emergency contraception, your next menstrual cycle may start
earlier or later than usual. Your menstrual flow may be lighter or heavier
than usual.

    * Most women get their next period within 7 days of the expected date.
    * If you do not get your period within 3 weeks after taking emergency contraception, you might be pregnant. Contact your provider. 

Sometimes, emergency contraception does not work. However, research suggests
that emergency contraceptives have no long-term effects on the pregnancy or
developing baby.

OTHER IMPORTANT FACTS

You may be able to use emergency contraception even if you cannot regularly
take birth control pills. Talk to your provider about your options.

Emergency contraception should not be used as a routine birth control method.
It does not work as well as most types of birth control.

## Alternative Names

Morning-after pill; Postcoital contraception; Birth control - emergency; Plan
B; Family planning - emergency contraception

## Images

    * ![Intrauterine device](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17078t.jpg)Intrauterine device
    * ![Side sectional view of female reproductive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17079t.jpg)Side sectional view of female reproductive system
    * ![Hormone-based contraceptives](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17101t.jpg)Hormone-based contraceptives
    * ![Birth control methods](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19068t.jpg)Birth control methods

## References

Allen RH, Kaunitz AM, Hickey M. Hormonal contraception. In: Melmed S, Polonsky
KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_. 13th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 18.

Begaz T. Emergency contraception. In: Adams JG, ed. _Emergency Medicine_. 2nd
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:chap 129.

Practice bulletin no. 152: Emergency contraception. _Obstet Gynecol_.
2015;126(3):e1-e11. PMID: 26287787 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26287787.

Rivlin K, Westhoff C. Family planning. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM,
Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 13.

Winikoff B, Grossman D. Contraception. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 238.

## Review Date 1/14/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Birth Control](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Birthcontrol_thumb.jpg)Birth
Control _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

