Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007635.htm    
                                Description: An intrauterine device (IUD) is a small plastic T-shaped device used for birth control. It is inserted into the uterus where it stays to prevent pregnancy.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Intrauterine devices (IUD)

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007635.htm

# Intrauterine devices (IUD)

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An intrauterine device (IUD) is a small plastic T-shaped device used for birth
control. It is inserted into the uterus where it stays to prevent pregnancy.

## Description

An IUD is often inserted by your health care provider during your monthly
period. Either type can be inserted quickly and easily in the provider's
office or clinic. Before placing the IUD, the provider washes the cervix with
an antiseptic solution. After this, the provider:

    * Slides a plastic tube containing the IUD through the vagina and into the uterus.
    * Pushes the IUD into the uterus with the help of a plunger.
    * Removes the tube, leaving two small strings that dangle outside the cervix within the vagina. 

The strings have two purposes:

    * They let the provider or woman check that the IUD stays properly in position.
    * They are used to pull the IUD out of the uterus when it is time to remove it. This should only be done by a provider. 

This procedure can cause discomfort and pain, but not all women have the same
side effects. During insertion, you may feel:

    * Little pain and some discomfort
    * Cramping and pain
    * Dizzy or lightheaded 

Some women have cramps and backaches for 1 to 2 days after insertion. Other
may have cramps and backaches for weeks or months. Over-the-counter pain
relievers can ease the discomfort.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

IUDs are an excellent choice if you want:

    * A long-term and effective birth control method
    * To avoid risks and side effects of contraceptive hormones 

But you should learn more about IUDs when deciding if you want to get an IUD.

An IUD can prevent pregnancy for 3 to 10 years. Exactly how long the IUD will
prevent pregnancy depends on the type of IUD you are using.

IUDs can also be used as an emergency contraception. It must be inserted
within 5 days of having unprotected sex.

A newer type of IUD called Mirena releases a low dose of a hormone into the
uterus each day for a period of 3 to 5 years. This increases the effectiveness
of the device as a birth control method. It also has the added benefits of
reducing or stopping menstrual flow. It may help protect against cancer
(endometrial cancer) in women who are at risk of developing the disease.

## Risks

While uncommon, IUDs carry some risks, such as:

    * There is a small chance of getting pregnant while using an IUD. If you do get pregnant, your provider can remove the IUD to lower the risk of miscarriage or other problems.
    * A higher risk of an ectopic pregnancy, but only if you do get pregnant while using an IUD. An ectopic pregnancy is one that occurs outside the womb. It can be serious, even life-threatening.
    * An IUD may penetrate the uterine wall and require surgery to remove.

## Before the Procedure

Talk with your provider about whether an IUD is a good choice for you. Also
ask your provider:

    * What you can expect during the procedure
    * What your risks might be
    * What you should watch for after the procedure 

For the most part, an IUD can be inserted at any time:

    * Right after giving birth
    * After an elective or spontaneous miscarriage

If you have an infection, you should NOT have an IUD inserted.

Your provider may advise you to take an over-the-counter painkiller before
getting the IUD inserted. If you are sensitive to pain in your vagina or
cervix, ask for a local anesthetic to be applied before the procedure starts.

## After the Procedure

You may want to have someone drive you home after the procedure. Some women
have mild cramping, low backache, and spotting for a couple of days.

If you have a progestin-releasing IUD, it takes about 7 days for it to start
to work. You do not need to wait to have sex. But you should use a backup form
of birth control, such as a condom, for the first week.

Your provider will want to see you 2 to 4 weeks after the procedure to be sure
the IUD is still in place. Ask your provider to show you how to check that the
IUD is still in place, and how often you should check it.

In rare cases, an IUD can slip partly or all of the way out of your uterus.
This is generally seen after pregnancy. If this happens, contact your provider
right away. DO NOT try to remove an IUD that has come part of the way out or
has slipped out of place.

Call your provider right away if you have:

    * Flu-like symptoms
    * Fever
    * Chills
    * Cramps
    * Pain, bleeding, or fluid leaking from your vagina 

## Alternative Names

Mirena; ParaGard; IUS; Intrauterine system; LNG-IUS; Contraception - IUD

## References

Bonnema RA, Spencer AL. Contraception. In: Kellerman RD, Bope ET, eds. _Conn's
Current Therapy 2018._ Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:1090-1093.

Curtis KM, Jatlaoui TC, Tepper NK, et al. U.S. Selected Practice
Recommendations for Contraceptive Use, 2016. _MMWR Recomm Rep_.
2016;65(4):1-66. PMID: 27467319 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27467319.

Glasier A. Contraception. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al,
eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 134.

Rivlin K, Westhoff C. Family planning. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM,
Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 13.

## Review Date 9/25/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Birth Control](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Birthcontrol_thumb.jpg)Birth
Control _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

