Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000655.htm    
                                Description: Oral contraceptives use hormones to prevent pregnancy. Combination pills contain both progestin and estrogen.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Birth control pills - combination

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000655.htm

# Birth control pills - combination

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Oral contraceptives use hormones to prevent pregnancy. Combination pills
contain both progestin and estrogen.

## What Are Combination Birth Control Pills?

Birth control pills help keep you from getting pregnant. When taken daily,
they are one of the most effective methods of contraception. For most women
they are extremely safe. They also have a number of other benefits. Some of
these include:

    * Improve painful, heavy, or irregular periods 
    * Treat acne
    * Prevent ovarian cancer

Combination birth control pills contain both estrogen and progestin. Some
combination birth control pills allow you to have fewer periods each year.
These are called continuous or extended-cycle pills. Ask your health care
provider about dosing options to decrease the frequency of your menstrual
cycles.

## Types of Combination Birth Control Pills

Birth control pills come in packages. You take pills from a 21-pack once a day
for 3 weeks, then you do not take pills for 1 week. It may be easier to
remember to take 1 pill every day, so other pills come in a 28-pack of pills,
with some having active pills (containing hormones) and some with no hormones.

There are 5 types of combination birth control pills. Your provider will help
you choose the right one for you. The 5 types are:

    * One phase pills: These have the same amount of estrogen and progestin in all the active pills.
    * Two phase pills: The level of hormones in these pills changes once during each menstrual cycle.
    * Three phase pills: Every 7 days the dose of hormones changes.
    * Four phase pills: The dose of hormones in these pills changes 4 times each cycle.
    * Continuous or extended cycle pills: These keep the level of hormones up so you have few or no periods. 

## How Do I Start Taking Combination Pills?

You may:

    * Take your first pill on the first day of your period.
    * Take your first pill on the Sunday after your period starts. If you do this, you need to use another birth control method (condom, diaphragm, or sponge) for the next 7 days. This is called backup birth control.
    * Take your first pill any day in your cycle, but you will need to use another birth control method for the first month. 

For continuous or extended cycle pills: Take 1 pill every day, at the same
time each day.

## How Do I Take Them?

Take 1 pill every day, at the same time of day. Birth control pills only work
if you take them every day. If you miss a day, use a backup method.

## What if I Miss a Day?

If you miss 1 or more pills, use a backup method of birth control and call
your provider right away. What to do depends on:

    * What type of pill you are taking
    * Where you are in your cycle
    * How many pills you missed 

Your provider will help you get back on schedule.

## What to Expect When I Stop

You may decide to stop taking birth control pills because you want to get
pregnant or change to another birth control method. Here are some things to
expect when you stop taking the pill:

    * You might become pregnant right away.
    * You may have mild spotting of blood before you get your first period.
    * You should get your period 4 to 6 weeks after taking your last pill. If you do not get your period in 8 weeks, call your provider.
    * Your period may be heavier or lighter than usual.
    * Your acne may return.
    * For the first month, you may have headaches or mood swings. 

## When to Use a Backup Method

Use a backup method of birth control, such as condom, diaphragm, or sponge if:

    * You miss 1 or more pills.
    * You are not starting your first pill on the first day of your period.
    * You are sick, throwing up, or have loose stools (diarrhea). Even if you take your pill, your body may not absorb it. Use a backup method of birth control for the rest of that cycle.
    * You are taking another medicine that may keep the pill from working. Tell your provider or pharmacist if you take any other medicines, such as antibiotics, seizure medicine, medicine to treat HIV, or St. John's wort. Find out if what you take will interfere with how well the pill works. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if you have any of the following symptoms after starting to
take the birth control pills:

    * You have swelling in your leg
    * You have leg pain
    * Your leg feels warm to the touch or has changes in skin color
    * You have fever or chills
    * You are short of breath and it is hard to breathe
    * You have chest pain
    * You cough up blood
    * You have a headache that gets worse, especially a migraine with aura 

## Alternative Names

The pill - combination; Oral contraceptives - combination; OCP - combination;
Contraception - combination; BCP - combination

## References

Allen RH, Kaunitz AM, Hickey M. Hormonal contraception. In: Melmed S, Polonsky
KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_. 13th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 18.

Glasier A. Contraception. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al,
eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 134.

Isley MM, Katz VL. Postpartum care and long-term health considerations. In:
Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem
Pregnancies_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 23.

## Review Date 9/25/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Birth Control

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

