Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000774.htm    
                                Description: An intrauterine device (IUD) is a small, plastic, T-shaped device used for birth control. It is inserted into the uterus where it stays to prevent pregnancy.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Deciding about an IUD

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000774.htm

# Deciding about an IUD

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An intrauterine device (IUD) is a small, plastic, T-shaped device used for
birth control. It is inserted into the uterus where it stays to prevent
pregnancy.

## Alternative names

Contraception - IUD; Birth control - IUD; Intrauterine - deciding; Mirena -
deciding; ParaGard - deciding

## Types of IUDs

You have choices for what type of IUD to have. Talk with your health care
provider about which type may be best for you.

Copper-releasing IUDs:

    * Start working immediately after being inserted.
    * Work by releasing copper ions. These are toxic to sperm. The T-shape also blocks sperm and keeps them from reaching the egg.
    * Can stay in the uterus for up to 10 years.
    * Can also be used for emergency contraception. 

Progestin-releasing IUDs:

    * Start to work within 7 days after being inserted.
    * Work by releasing progestin. Progestin is a hormone used in many kinds of birth control pills. It prevents the ovaries from releasing an egg.
    * Have a T-shape that also blocks the sperm and keeps sperm from reaching an egg.
    * Can stay in the uterus for 3 to 5 years. How long depends on the brand. There are 2 brands available in the United States: Skyla and Mirena. Mirena can also treat heavy menstrual bleeding and reduce cramps. 

## How IUDs work

Both types of IUDs prevent sperm from fertilizing an egg.

Progestin-releasing IUDs also works by:

    * Making the mucus around the cervix thicker, which makes it harder for sperm get inside the uterus and fertilize an egg
    * Thinning the lining of the uterus, which makes it more difficult for a fertilized egg to attach 

## Pros and cons

IUDs have certain benefits.

    * They are more than 99% effective at preventing pregnancy.
    * You don't need to think about birth control each time you have sex.
    * One IUD can last for 3 to 10 years. This makes it one of the cheapest forms of birth control.
    * You become fertile again almost immediately after an IUD is removed.
    * Copper-releasing IUDs do not have hormonal side effects and may help protect against uterine (endometrial) cancer.
    * Both types of IUDs may lower the risk of developing cervical cancer. 

There are also downsides.

    * IUDs do not prevent sexually transmitted diseases (STDs). To avoid STDs you need to abstain from sex, be in a mutually monogamous relationship, or use condoms.
    * A provider needs to insert or remove the IUD.
    * While rare, an IUD can slip out of place and need to be removed.
    * Copper-releasing IUDs can cause cramps, longer and heavier menstrual periods, and spotting between periods.
    * Progestin-releasing IUDs can cause irregular bleeding and spotting during the first few months.
    * IUDs may increase the risk for ectopic pregnancy. But women who use IUDs have a very low risk of getting pregnant.
    * Some types of IUDs may increase the risk for benign ovarian cysts. But such cysts usually do not cause symptoms and they usually resolve on their own. 

IUDs do not appear to increase the risk for pelvic infection. They also do not
affect fertility or increase the risk for infertility. Once an IUD is removed,
fertility is restored.

## Things to think about

You may want to consider an IUD if you:

    * Want or need to avoid risks for contraceptive hormones
    * Can't take hormonal contraceptives
    * Have a heavy menstrual flow and want lighter periods (hormonal IUD only) 

You should not consider an IUD if you:

    * Are at high risk for STDs
    * Have a current or recent history of pelvic infection
    * Are pregnant
    * Have abnormal Pap tests
    * Have cervical or uterine cancer
    * Have a very large or very small uterus 

## References

Glasier A. Contraception. In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de Krester DM, et al,
eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 134.

Harper DM, Wilfling LE, Blanner CF. Contraception. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP,
eds. _Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 26.

Jatlaoui TC, Riley HEM, Curtis KM. The safety of intrauterine devices among
young women: a systematic review. _Contraception_. 2017;95(1):17-39 PMID:
27771475 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/ 27771475.

Jatlaoui T, Burstein GR. Contraception. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme
JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 117.

Rivlin K, Westhoff C. Family planning. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM,
Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 13.

## Review Date 9/25/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Birth Control

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

