Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002599.htm    
                                Description: Birth control pills, also called oral contraceptives, are prescription medicines used to prevent pregnancy. Birth control pill overdose occurs when someone takes more than the normal or recommended amount    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Birth control pill overdose

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002599.htm

# Birth control pill overdose

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Birth control pills, also called oral contraceptives, are prescription
medicines used to prevent pregnancy. Birth control pill overdose occurs when
someone takes more than the normal or recommended amount of this medicine.
This can be by accident or on purpose.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual overdose. If you or someone you are with has an exposure, call your
local emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be
reached directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.  

## Poisonous Ingredient

Most birth control pills contain one of the following combinations of estrogen
and progestin hormones:

    * Ethynodiol diacetate and ethinyl estradiol
    * Ethynodiol diacetate and mestranol
    * Levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol
    * Norethindrone acetate and ethinyl estradiol
    * Norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol
    * Mestranol and norethindrone
    * Mestranol and norethynodrel
    * Norgestrel and ethinyl estradiol

These birth control pills contain progestin only:

    * Norethindrone
    * Norgestrel

Other birth control pills may also contain these ingredients.

## Where Found

Here are several birth control medicines:

    * Levonorgestrel
    * Levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol
    * Norethindrone
    * Norethindrone acetate and ethinyl estradiol
    * Norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol

Other birth control pills may also be available.

## Symptoms

Symptoms of an overdose of birth control pills include:

    * Breast tenderness
    * Discolored urine
    * Drowsiness
    * Heavy vaginal bleeding (2 to 7 days after the overdose)
    * Headache
    * Emotional changes
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Rash 

## Home Care

Seek medical help right away, and call poison control. Do NOT make the person
throw up unless poison control or a health care provider tells you to.

Stop using the birth control pills and use other methods to prevent pregnancy,
if desired. The overdose is NOT likely to be life-threatening.

## Before Calling Emergency

Have this information ready:

    * Person's age, weight, and condition
    * The name of the medicine (ingredients and strength, if known)
    * When it was swallowed
    * The amount swallowed
    * If the medicine was prescribed for the person

## Poison Control

Your local poison center can be reached directly by calling the national toll-
free Poison Help hotline (1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.
This national hotline number will let you talk to experts in poisoning. They
will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison prevention. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

A trip to the emergency room (ER) will probably not be necessary. If you do
go, take the container with you to the hospital, if possible.

If an ER visit is needed, the provider will measure and monitor the person's
vital signs, including temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure.
The person may receive:

    * Activated charcoal (in extreme cases)
    * Blood and urine tests
    * Medicines to treat symptoms

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Serious symptoms are very unlikely. Birth control pills may affect the
metabolism of other medications, which can result in other, more serious
symptoms or side effects.

## References

Aronson JK. Hormonal contraceptives - emergency contraception. In: Aronson JK,
ed. _Meyler's Side Effects of Drugs_. 16th ed. Waltham, MA: Elsevier;
2016:824-826.

Aronson JK. Hormonal contraceptives - oral. In: Aronson JK, ed. _Meyler's Side
Effects of Drugs_. 16th ed. Waltham, MA: Elsevier; 2016:782-823.

## Review Date 6/26/2019

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Birth Control](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Birthcontrol_thumb.jpg)Birth
Control _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

