Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007555.htm    
                                Description: Certain birth control methods contain man-made forms of hormones. These hormones are normally made in a woman    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Birth control - slow release methods

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007555.htm

# Birth control - slow release methods

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Certain birth control methods contain man-made forms of hormones. These
hormones are normally made in a woman's ovaries. These hormones are called
estrogen and progestin.

Both of these hormones prevent a woman's ovaries from releasing an egg. The
release of an egg during menstrual cycle is called ovulation. They do this by
changing the levels of the natural hormones the body makes.

Progestin also helps prevent sperm from entering the uterus by making the
mucous around a woman's cervix thick and sticky.

Birth control pills are one way of receiving these hormones. They are only
effective if taken daily, preferably at about the same time.

There are other methods to prevent pregnancy. The same hormones may be used
but they are released slowly over time.

![Birth control
methods](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19068.jpg)

## Information

PROGESTIN IMPLANTS

A progestin implant is a small rod that is implanted under the skin, most
often on the inside of the arm. The rod releases a small amount of the
progestin daily into the bloodstream.

It takes about a minute to insert the rod. The procedure is done using a local
anesthetic in a doctor's office. The rod can stay in place for 3 years.
However, it can be removed at any time. Removal usually takes only a few
minutes.

After the implant has been inserted:

    * You may have some bruising around the site for a week or more.
    * You should be protected from getting pregnant within 1 week.
    * You can use these implants while breastfeeding. 

Progestin implants work better than birth control pills to prevent pregnancy.
Very few women who use these implants are likely to get pregnant.

Your regular menstrual cycles should return within 3 to 4 weeks after these
implants are removed.

PROGESTIN INJECTIONS

Injections or shots that contain the hormone progestin also work to prevent
pregnancy. A single shot works for up to 90 days. These injections are given
into the muscles of the upper arm or buttocks.

Side effects that may occur include:

    * Changes in menstrual cycles or extra bleeding or spotting. Around one half of women who use these injections have no menstrual cycles.
    * Breast tenderness, weight gain, headaches, or depression. 

Progestin injections work better than birth control pills to prevent
pregnancy. Very few women who use progestin injections is likely to get
pregnant.

Sometimes the effects of these hormone shots last longer than 90 days. If you
are planning to become pregnant in the near future, you might want to consider
a different birth control method.

SKIN PATCH

The skin patch is placed on your shoulder, buttocks, or another area of your
body. A new patch is applied once a week for 3 weeks. Then you go 1 week
without a patch.

Estrogen levels are higher with the patch than with birth control pills or the
vaginal ring. Because of this, there may be an increased risk for blood clots
in the legs or lungs with this method. The FDA has issued a warning about the
patch and the higher risk for a blood clot traveling to a lung.

The patch slowly releases both estrogen and progestin into your blood. Your
health care provider will prescribe this method for you.

The patch works better than birth control pills to prevent pregnancy. Very few
women who use the patch are likely to get pregnant.

The skin patch contains estrogen. Along with the higher risk for blood clots,
there is a rare risk for high blood pressure, heart attack, and stroke.
Smoking increases these risks even more.

VAGINAL RING

The vaginal ring is a flexible. This ring is about 2 inches (5 cm) wide and is
placed into the vagina. It releases the hormones progestin and estrogen.

    * Your provider will prescribe this method, but you will insert the ring yourself.
    * It will stay in the vagina for 3 weeks. At the end of the third week, you will take the ring out for 1 week. DO NOT remove the ring until the end of the 3 weeks. 

Side effects with the ring may include:

    * Nausea and breast tenderness, which are less severe than with birth control pills or patches.
    * Vaginal discharge or vaginitis.
    * Breakthrough bleeding and spotting (may occur more often than with birth control pills). 

The vaginal ring contains estrogen. As a result, there is a rare risk for high
blood pressure, blood clots, heart attack, and stroke. Smoking increases these
risks even more.

The vaginal ring slowly releases both estrogen and progestin into your blood.

The vaginal ring works better than birth control pills to prevent pregnancy.
Very few women who use the vaginal ring is likely to get pregnant.

HORMONE-RELEASING IUDS

An intrauterine device (IUD) is a small plastic T-shaped device used for birth
control. It is inserted into the uterus. IUDs prevent sperm from fertilizing
an egg.

A newer type of IUD called Mirena releases a low dose of a hormone into the
uterus each day for a period of 3 to 5 years. This increases the effectiveness
of the device as a birth control method. It also has the added benefits of
reducing or stopping menstrual flow. It may help protect against cancer
(endometrial cancer) in women who are at risk of developing the disease.

You have choices for what type of IUD to have. Talk with your provider about
which type may be best for you.

## Alternative Names

Contraception - slow-release hormonal methods; Progestin implants; Progestin
injections; Skin patch; Vaginal ring

## Images

    * ![Birth control methods](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19068t.jpg)Birth control methods

## References

Allen RH, Kaunitz AM, Hickey M. Hormonal contraception. In: Melmed S, Polonsky
KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of Endocrinology_. 13th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 18.

Curtis KM, Jatlaoui TC, Tepper NK, et al. U.S. selected practice
recommendations for contraceptive use, 2016. _MMWR Recomm Rep_.
2016;65(4):1-66. PMID: 27467319 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27467319.

Pickle S, Wu J, Burbank-Schmitt E. Prevention of unintended pregnancy: a focus
on long-acting reversible contraception. _Prim Care_. 2014;41(2):239-260.
PMID: 24830607 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24830607.

The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists website. Combined
hormonal birth control: pill, patch, and ring, FAQ 185.
www.acog.org/Patients/FAQs/Combined-Hormonal-Birth-Control-Pill-Patch-and-
Ring. Updated March 2018. Accessed May 24, 2018.

The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists website. Long-acting
reversible contraception (LARC): IUD and implant, FAQ184.
www.acog.org/Patients/FAQs/Long-Acting-Reversible-Contraception-Intrauterine-
Device-and-Implant. Updated January 2018. Accessed May 24, 2018.

## Review Date 4/19/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Birth Control](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Birthcontrol_thumb.jpg)Birth
Control _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

