Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001946.htm    
                                Description: Your choice of a birth control method depends on a number of factors, including your health, how often you have sex, and whether or not you want children.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Birth control and family planning

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001946.htm

# Birth control and family planning

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Your choice of a birth control method depends on a number of factors,
including your health, how often you have sex, and whether or not you want
children.

## Information

Here are some questions to consider when selecting a birth control method:

    * How well does the method prevent pregnancy? To tell how well a method works, look at the number of pregnancies in 100 women using that method over a period of 1 year.
    * What are your feelings about getting pregnant? Would an unplanned pregnancy create hardship or distress to a woman or her partner? Or would a pregnancy be welcomed if it occurred earlier than planned?
    * How much does a method of birth control cost? Does your insurance plan pay for it?
    * What are the health risks? Talk about these risks with your health care provider before believing what you hear from others.
    * Is your partner willing to accept and use a given method of birth control?
    * Do you want a method that you only need to use when you have sex? Or do you want something that is in place and always working?
    * Is preventing infections spread by sexual contact important? Many methods do not protect you from sexually transmitted infections (STIs). Condoms are the best choice for preventing STIs. They work best when combined with spermicides.
    * Availability: Can the method be used without a prescription, a provider visit, or, in the case of minors, parental consent? 

**BARRIER METHODS OF BIRTH CONTROL**

CONDOMS:

![The male condom](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/17082.jpg)![The
female condom](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/17063.jpg)

    * A condom is a thin latex or polyurethane sheath. The male condom is placed around the erect penis. The female condom is placed inside the vagina before intercourse.
    * A condom must be worn at all times during intercourse to prevent pregnancy.
    * Condoms can be bought in most drug and grocery stores. Some family planning clinics offer free condoms. You do not need a prescription to get condoms. 

DIAPHRAGM AND CERVICAL CAP:

![The diaphragm](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/17049.jpg)![The
cervical cap](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/17033.jpg)

    * A diaphragm is a flexible rubber cup that is filled with spermicidal cream or jelly.
    * It is placed into the vagina over the cervix before intercourse, to prevent sperm from reaching the uterus.
    * It should be left in place for 6 to 8 hours after intercourse.
    * Diaphragms must be prescribed by a woman's provider. The provider will determine the correct type and size of diaphragm for the woman.
    * About 5 to 20 pregnancies occur over 1 year in 100 women using this method, depending on proper use.
    * A similar, smaller device is called a cervical cap.
    * Risks include irritation and allergic reactions to the diaphragm or spermicide, and increased frequency of urinary tract infection and vaginal yeast infection. In rare cases, toxic shock syndrome may develop in women who leave the diaphragm in too long. A cervical cap may cause an abnormal Pap test. 

VAGINAL SPONGE:

    * Vaginal contraceptive sponges are soft, and contain a chemical that kills or "disables" sperm.
    * The sponge is moistened and inserted into the vagina, to cover over the cervix before intercourse.
    * The vaginal sponge can be bought at your pharmacy without a prescription. 

**HORMONAL METHODS OF BIRTH CONTROL**

Some birth control methods use hormones. They will have either both an
estrogen and a progestin, or a progestin alone. You need a prescription for
most hormonal birth control methods.

    * Both hormones prevent a womanâs ovary from releasing an egg during her cycle. They do this by affecting the levels of other hormones the body makes.
    * Progestins help prevent sperm from making their way to the egg by making mucus around a womanâs cervix thick and sticky. 
![Hormone-based
contraceptives](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/17101.jpg)![Vaginal
ring](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19704.jpg)

Types of hormonal birth control methods include:

    * Birth control pills: These may contain both estrogen and progestin, or only progestin.
    * Implants: These are small rods implanted beneath the skin. They release a continuous dose of hormone to prevent ovulation.
    * Progestin injections, such as Depo-Provera, that are given into the muscles of the upper arm or buttocks once every 3 months.
    * The skin patch, such as Ortho Evra, is placed on your shoulder, buttocks, or other place on the body. It releases a continuous dose of hormones.
    * The vaginal ring, such as NuvaRing, is a flexible ring about 2 inches (5 centimeters) wide. It is placed into the vagina. It releases the hormones progestin and estrogen.
    * Emergency (or "morning after") contraception: This medicine can be bought without a prescription at your drugstore. 

IUD (INTRAUTERINE DEVICE):

![Intrauterine device](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/17078.jpg)

    * The IUD is a small plastic or copper device placed inside the woman's uterus by her provider. Some IUDs release small amounts of progestin. IUDs may be left in place for 5 to 10 years, depending on the device used.
    * IUDs can be placed at almost any time.
    * IUDs are safe and work well. Fewer than 1 out of 100 women per year will get pregnant using an IUD.
    * IUDs that release progestin may be for treating heavy menstrual bleeding and reducing cramps. They may also cause periods to stop completely.  

 **PERMANENT METHODS OF BIRTH CONTROL**

These methods are best for men, women, and couples who feel certain they do
not want to have children in the future. They include vasectomy and tubal
ligation. These procedures can sometimes be reversed if a pregnancy is desired
at a later time. However, the success rate for reversal is not high.

![Before and after
vasectomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/10017.jpg)![Tubal
ligation](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/17136.jpg)

 **BIRTH CONTROL METHODS THAT DO NOT WORK VERY WELL**

    * Withdrawal of the penis from the vagina before ejaculation can still result in pregnancy. Some semen often escapes before full withdrawal. It can be enough to cause a pregnancy.
    * Douching shortly after sex is not likely to work. The sperm can make their way past the cervix within 90 seconds. Douching is never recommended because it can cause infections in the uterus and tubes.
    * Breastfeeding: Despite the myths, women who are breastfeeding can become pregnant. 

## Alternative Names

Contraception; Family planning and contraception; Coitus interruptus

## Images

    * ![The cervical cap](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17033t.jpg)The cervical cap
    * ![The diaphragm](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17049t.jpg)The diaphragm
    * ![The female condom](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17063t.jpg)The female condom
    * ![Intrauterine device](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17078t.jpg)Intrauterine device
    * ![Side sectional view of female reproductive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17079t.jpg)Side sectional view of female reproductive system
    * ![The male condom](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17082t.jpg)The male condom
    * ![Hormone-based contraceptives](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17101t.jpg)Hormone-based contraceptives
    * ![Tubal ligation](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17136t.jpg)Tubal ligation
    * ![Vaginal ring](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19704t.jpg)Vaginal ring
    * ![Barrier methods of birth control - Series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10333t.jpg)Barrier methods of birth control - series
    * ![Before and after vasectomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10017t.jpg)Before and after vasectomy
    * ![Tubal ligation - uterine anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/7192t.jpg)Tubal ligation - Series
    * ![Birth control pill - series - Normal female anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10339t.jpg)Birth control pill - series

## References

Bonnema RA, Spencer AL. Contraception. In: Kellerman RD, Bope ET, eds. _Conn's
Current Therapy 2018_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2018;1090-1093.

Curtis KM, Jatlaoui TC, Tepper NK, et al. US selected practice recommendations
for contraceptive use, 2016. _MMWR Recomm Rep_. 2016;65(4):1-66. PMID:
27467319 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27467319.

Harper DM, Wilfling LE, Blanner CF. Contraception. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP,
eds. _Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 26.

Rivlin K, Westhoff C. Family planning. In:Â Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM,
Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 13.

## Review Date 1/14/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Birth Control](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Birthcontrol_thumb.jpg)Birth
Control _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

