Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000123.htm    
                                Description: You had a brain aneurysm. An aneurysm is a weak area in the wall of a blood vessel that bulges or balloons out. Once it reaches a certain size, it has a high chance of bursting. It can leak blood and cause    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Brain aneurysm repair - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000123.htm

# Brain aneurysm repair - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You had a brain aneurysm. An aneurysm is a weak area in the wall of a blood
vessel that bulges or balloons out. Once it reaches a certain size, it has a
high chance of bursting. It can leak blood and cause bleeding along the
surface of the brain. This is also called a subarachnoid hemorrhage. Sometimes
bleeding can occur inside the brain.

You had surgery to prevent the aneurysm from bleeding or to treat the aneurysm
after it bled. After you go home, follow your health care provider's
instructions on how to care for yourself. Use the information below as a
reminder.

## When You're in the Hospital

You likely had one of two types of surgery:

    * Open craniotomy, during which the doctor makes an opening in your skull to place a clip on the neck of the aneurysm.
    * Endovascular repair, during which the doctor does surgery on areas of your body through a blood vessel.

## What to Expect at Home

If you had bleeding before, during, or after surgery you may have some short-
or long-term problems. These may be mild or severe. For many people, these
problems get better over time.

If you had either type of surgery you may:

    * Feel sad, angry, or very nervous. This is normal.
    * Have had a seizure and will take medicine to prevent another one.
    * Have headaches that may continue for a while. This is common. 

What to expect after craniotomy and placement of a clip:

    * It will take 3 to 6 weeks to fully recover. If you had bleeding from your aneurysm this may take longer. You may feel tired for up to 12 or more weeks.
    * If you had a stroke or brain injury from the bleeding, you may have permanent problems such as trouble with speech or thinking, muscle weakness, or numbness.
    * Problems with your memory are common, but these may improve.
    * You may feel dizzy or confused, or your speech may not be normal after the surgery. If you did not have any bleeding, these problems should get better. 

What to expect after endovascular repair:

    * You may have pain in your groin area.
    * You may have some bruising around and below the incision.

You may be able to start daily activities, such as driving a car, within 1 or
2 weeks if you did not have any bleeding. Ask your provider which daily
activities are safe for you to do.

## Self-care

Make plans to have help at home while you recover.

Follow a healthy lifestyle, such as:

    * If you have high blood pressure, keep it under control. Be sure to take the medicines your provider prescribed for you.
    * DO NOT smoke.
    * Ask your provider if it is OK for you to drink alcohol.
    * Ask your provider when it is OK to start sexual activity. 

Take your seizure medicine if any was prescribed for you. You may be referred
to a speech, physical, or occupational therapist to help you recover from any
brain damage.

If the doctor put a catheter in through your groin (endovascular surgery), it
is OK to walk short distances on a flat surface. Limit going up and down
stairs to around 2 times a day for 2 to 3 days. Do not do yard work, drive, or
play sports until your doctor says it is OK to do so.

Your provider will tell you when your dressing should be changed. Do not take
a bath or swim for 1 week.

If you have a small amount of bleeding from the incision, lie down and put
pressure where it bleeds for 30 minutes.

Be sure you understand any instructions about taking medicines such as blood
thinners (anticoagulants), aspirin, or NSAIDs, such as ibuprofen and naproxen.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your surgeon if you have:

    * A severe headache or a headache that gets worse and you feel dizzy
    * A stiff neck
    * Nausea and vomiting
    * Eye pain
    * Problems with your eyesight (from blindness to peripheral vision problems to double vision)
    * Speech problems
    * Problems thinking or understanding
    * Problems noticing things around you
    * Changes in your behavior
    * Feel weak or lose consciousness
    * Loss of balance or coordination or loss of muscle use
    * Weakness or numbness of an arm, leg, or your face

Also, call your surgeon if you have:

    * Bleeding at the incision site that does not go away after you apply pressure
    * An arm or leg that changes color, becomes cool to touch, or becomes numb
    * Redness, pain, or yellow or green discharge in or around the incision site
    * A fever higher than 101Â°F (38.3Â°C) or chills 

## Follow-up

Make sure to follow-up with your surgeon's office within 2 weeks of being
discharged from the hospital.

Ask your surgeon if you need long-term follow-up and tests, including CT scans
or MRIs of your head.

If you had a cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) shunt placed, you will need regular
follow-ups to make sure it functions well.

## Alternative Names

Aneurysm repair - cerebral - discharge; Cerebral aneurysm repair - discharge;
Coiling - discharge; Saccular aneurysm repair - discharge; Berry aneurysm
repair - discharge; Fusiform aneurysm repair - discharge; Dissecting aneurysm
repair - discharge; Endovascular aneurysm repair - discharge; Aneurysm
clipping - discharge

## References

Bowles E. Cerebral aneurysm and aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage. _Nurs
Stand_. 2014;28(34):52-59. PMID: 24749614
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24749614.

Connolly ES Jr, Rabinstein AA, Carhuapoma JR, et al. Guidelines for the
management of aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage: a guideline for healthcare
professionals from the American Heart Association/American Stroke Association.
Stroke. 2012;43(6):1711-1737. PMID: 22556195
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22556195.

Szeder V, Tateshima S, Duckwiler GR. Intracranial aneurysms and subarachnoid
hemorrhage. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds.
_Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 67.

## Read More

    * Aneurysm in the brain
    * Brain aneurysm repair
    * Brain surgery
    * Recovering after stroke
    * Seizures
    * Stroke
    * Tips on how to quit smoking

## Patient Instructions

    * Brain surgery - discharge
    * Communicating with someone with aphasia

## Review Date 7/9/2018

Updated by: Luc Jasmin, MD, PhD, FRCS (C), FACS, Department of Surgery,
Holston Valley Medical Center, TN; Department of Maxillofacial Surgery at
UCSF, San Francisco, CA. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Brain Aneurysm

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

