Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003799.htm    
                                Description: Cerebral angiography is a procedure that uses a special dye (contrast material) and x-rays to see how blood flows through the brain.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cerebral angiography

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003799.htm

# Cerebral angiography

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Cerebral angiography is a procedure that uses a special dye (contrast
material) and x-rays to see how blood flows through the brain.

## How the Test is Performed

Cerebral angiography is done in the hospital or radiology center.

    * You lie on an x-ray table.
    * Your head is held still using a strap, tape, or sandbags, so you DO NOT move it during the procedure.
    * Before the test starts, you are given a mild sedative to help you relax.
    * An electrocardiogram (ECG) monitors your heart activity during the test. Sticky patches, called leads, will be placed on your arms and legs. Wires connect the leads to the ECG machine. 

An area of your body, usually the groin, is cleaned and numbed with a local
numbing medicine (anesthetic). A thin, hollow tube called a catheter is placed
through an artery. The catheter is carefully moved up through the main blood
vessels in the belly area and chest into an artery in the neck. X-rays help
the doctor guide the catheter to the correct position.

Once the catheter is in place, the dye is sent through the catheter. X-ray
images are taken to see how the dye moves through the artery and blood vessels
of the brain. The dye helps highlight any blockages in blood flow.

Sometimes, a computer removes the bones and tissues on the images being
viewed, so that only the blood vessels filled with the dye are seen. This is
called digital subtraction angiography (DSA).

After the x-rays are taken, the catheter is withdrawn. Pressure is applied on
the leg at the site of insertion for 10 to 15 minutes to stop the bleeding or
a device is used to close the tiny hole. A tight bandage is then applied. Your
leg should be kept straight for 2 to 6 hours after the procedure. Watch the
area for bleeding for at least the next 12 hours. In rare cases, a wrist
artery is used instead of the groin artery.

Angiography with a catheter is used less often now. This is because MRA
(magnetic resonance angiography) and CT angiography give clearer images.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Before the procedure, your provider will examine you and order blood tests.

Tell the provider if you:

    * Have a history of bleeding problems or take medicines that are blood thinners
    * Have had an allergic reaction to x-ray contrast dye or any iodine substance
    * May be pregnant
    * Have kidney function problems 

You may be told not to eat or drink anything for 4 to 8 hours before the test.

When you arrive at the testing site, you will be given a hospital gown to
wear. You must remove all jewelry.

## How the Test will Feel

The x-ray table may feel hard and cold. You may ask for a blanket or pillow.

Some people feel a sting when the numbing medicine (anesthetic) is given. You
will feel a brief, sharp pain and pressure as the catheter is moved into the
body.

The contrast may cause a warm or burning feeling of the skin of the face or
head. This is normal and usually goes away within a few seconds.

You may have slight tenderness and bruising at the site of the injection after
the test.

## Why the Test is Performed

Cerebral angiography is most often used to identify or confirm problems with
the blood vessels in the brain.

Your provider may order this test if you have symptoms or signs of:

    * Abnormal blood vessels in the brain (vascular malformation)
    * Bulging blood vessel in the brain (aneurysm)
    * Narrowing of the arteries in the brain
    * Inflammation of the blood vessels in the brain (vasculitis) 

It is sometimes used to:

    * Look at blood flow to a tumor
    * Evaluate the arteries of the head and neck before surgery
    * Find a clot that may have caused a stroke

In some cases, this procedure may be used to get more detailed information
after something abnormal has been detected by an MRI or CT scan of the head.

This test may also be done in preparation for medical treatment
(interventional radiology procedures) by way of certain blood vessels.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Contrast dye flowing out of the blood vessel may be a sign of bleeding.

Narrowed arteries may suggest:

    * Cholesterol deposits
    * A spasm of a brain artery
    * Inherited disorders 

Out of place blood vessels may be due to:

    * Brain tumors
    * Bleeding within the skull
    * Aneurysm
    * Abnormal connection between the arteries and veins in the brain (arteriovenous malformation) 

Abnormal results may also be due to cancer that started in another part of the
body and has spread to the brain (metastatic brain tumor).

## Risks

Complications may include:

    * Allergic reaction to the contrast dye
    * Blood clot or bleeding where the catheter is inserted, which could partly block blood flow to the leg
    * Damage to an artery or artery wall from the catheter, which can block blood flow and cause a stroke (rare)
    * Damage to the kidneys from the IV contrast

## Considerations

Tell your provider right away if you have:

    * Weakness in your face muscles
    * Numbness in your leg during or after the procedure
    * Slurred speech during or after the procedure
    * Vision problems during or after the procedure 

## Alternative Names

Vertebral angiogram; Angiography - head; Carotid angiogram; Cervicocerebral
catheter-based angiography; Intra-arterial digital subtraction angiography;
IADSA

## Images

    * ![Brain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1074t.jpg)Brain
    * ![Carotid stenosis - X-ray of the left artery](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1152t.jpg)Carotid stenosis - X-ray of the left artery
    * ![Carotid stenosis - X-ray of the right artery](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1153t.jpg)Carotid stenosis - X-ray of the right artery

## References

Adamczyk P, Liebeskind DS. Vascular imaging: computed tomographic angiography,
magnetic resonance angiography, and ultrasound. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J,
Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 40.

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Cerebral angiography (cerebral angiogram) -
diagnostic. In: Chernecky CC, Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic
Procedures_. 6th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:309-310.

## Review Date 6/25/2018

Updated by: Jason Levy, MD, Northside Radiology Associates, Atlanta, GA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Arteriovenous
Malformations](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ArteriovenousMalformations_thumb.jpg)Arteriovenous
Malformations _Read more_

![Brain
Aneurysm](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BrainAneurysm2_thumb.jpg)Brain
Aneurysm _Read more_

![Vascular
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/VascularDiseases_thumb.jpg)Vascular
Diseases _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

