Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007277.htm    
                                Description: Endovascular embolization is a procedure to treat abnormal blood vessels in the brain and other parts of the body. It is an alternative to open surgery.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Endovascular embolization

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007277.htm

# Endovascular embolization

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Endovascular embolization is a procedure to treat abnormal blood vessels in
the brain and other parts of the body. It is an alternative to open surgery.

This procedure cuts off the blood supply to a certain part of the body.

## Description

You may have general anesthesia (asleep and pain-free) and a breathing tube.
Or, you may be given medicine to relax you, but you will not be asleep.

A small surgical cut will be made in the groin area. The doctor will use a
needle to create a hole in the femoral artery, a large blood vessel.

    * A tiny, flexible tube called a catheter is passed through the open skin and into the artery.
    * Dye is injected through this tube so that the blood vessel can be seen on x-ray images.
    * The doctor gently moves the catheter through the blood vessel up to the area being studied.
    * Once the catheter is in place, the doctor places small plastic particles, glue, metal coils, foam, or a balloon through it to seal off the faulty blood vessel. (If coils are used, it is called coil embolization.) 

This procedure can take several hours.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

The procedure is most often used to treat aneurysms in the brain. It can also
be used for other medical conditions when open surgery might be risky. The
goal of the treatment is to prevent bleeding in the problem area and to reduce
the risk that the blood vessel will break open (rupture).

Your doctor will help you decide whether it is safer to have surgery to block
off the aneurysm before it can rupture.

This procedure may be used to treat:

    * Arteriovenous malformation (AVM)
    * Brain aneurysm
    * Carotid artery cavernous fistula (a problem with the large artery in the neck)
    * Certain tumors

## Risks

Risks from the procedure may include:

    * Bleeding at the site of the needle puncture
    * Bleeding in the brain
    * Damage to the artery where the needle is inserted
    * Dislodged coil or balloon
    * Failure to completely treat the abnormal blood vessel
    * Infection
    * Stroke
    * Symptoms that keep returning 
    * Death

## Before the Procedure

This procedure is often done on an emergency basis. If it is not an emergency:

    * Tell your health care provider what drugs or herbs you are taking, and if you have been drinking a lot of alcohol.
    * Ask your provider which medicines you should still take on the day of the surgery.
    * Try to stop smoking.
    * You will most often be asked not to eat or drink anything for 8 hours before the surgery.
    * Take the medicines you have been told to take with a small sip of water.
    * Arrive at the hospital on time. 

## After the Procedure

If there was no bleeding before the procedure, you may need to stay in the
hospital for 1 to 2 days.

If bleeding occurred, your hospital stay will be longer.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How fast you recover depends on your overall health, the severity of your
medical condition, and other factors.

In most cases, endovascular embolization is a successful procedure with good
outcomes.

The outlook also depends on any brain damage that occurred from bleeding
before, during, or after the surgery.

## Alternative Names

Treatment - endovascular embolism; Coil embolization; Cerebral aneurysm -
endovascular; Coiling - endovascular; Saccular aneurysm - endovascular; Berry
aneurysm - endovascular repair; Fusiform aneurysm repair - endovascular;
Aneurysm repair - endovascular

## References

Kellner CP, Taylor BES, Meyers PM. Endovascular management of arteriovenous
malformations for cure. In: Winn HR, ed. _YoumansÂ and Winn Neurological
Surgery_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 404.

Lazzaro MA, Zaidat OO. Principles of neurointerventional therapy. In: Daroff
RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in
Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 56.

Rangel-Castilla L, Shakir HJ, Siddiqui AH. Endovascular therapy for the
treatment of cerebrovascular disease. In: Caplan LR, Biller J, Leary MC, et
al, eds. _Primer on Cerebrovascular Diseases_. 2nd ed. Cambridge, MA: Elsevier
Academic Press; 2017:chap 149.

## Review Date 1/31/2019

Updated by: Mary C. Mancini, MD, PhD, Director, Cardiothoracic Surgery,
Christus Highland Medical Center, Shreveport, LA. Review provided by VeriMed
Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Brain
Aneurysm](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BrainAneurysm2_thumb.jpg)Brain
Aneurysm _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

