Link: https://medlineplus.gov/kidneycysts.html    
                                Description: Polycystic kidney disease (PKD) are kidney cysts that enlarge kidneys and make them work poorly, leading to kidney failure. Learn about PKD symptoms    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Kidney Cysts

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/kidneycysts.html

#  Kidney Cysts

On this page

### Basics

  * Summary
  * Start Here
  * Diagnosis and Tests

### Learn More

  * Specifics
  * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

  * Videos and Tutorials

### Research

  * Statistics and Research
  * Clinical Trials
  * Journal Articles

### Resources

  * Reference Desk
  * Find an Expert

### For You

  * Children
  * Patient Handouts

## Summary

A cyst is a fluid-filled sac. You may get simple kidney cysts as you age; they
are usually harmless. There are also some diseases which cause kidney cysts.
One type is polycystic kidney disease (PKD). It runs in families. In PKD, many
cysts grow in the kidneys. This can enlarge the kidneys and make them work
poorly. About half of people with the most common type of PKD end up with
kidney failure. PKD also causes cysts in other parts of the body, such as the
liver.

Often, there are no symptoms at first. Later, symptoms include

  * Pain in the back and lower sides
  * Headaches
  * Blood in the urine

Doctors diagnose PKD with imaging tests and family history. There is no cure.
Treatments can help with symptoms and complications. They include medicines
and lifestyle changes, and if there is kidney failure, dialysis or kidney
transplants.

Acquired cystic kidney disease (ACKD) happens in people who have chronic
kidney disease, especially if they are on dialysis. Unlike PKD, the kidneys
are normal sized, and cysts do not form in other parts of the body. ACKD often
has no symptoms. Usually, the cysts are harmless and do not need treatment. If
they do cause complications, treatments include medicines, draining the cysts,
or surgery.

NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases

## Start Here

  * Acquired Cystic Kidney Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)
  * Kidney Cysts (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
  * Polycystic Kidney Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)

## Diagnosis and Tests

  * Kidney Tests: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * Renal Cysts (American College of Radiology, Radiological Society of North America) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

  * Medullary Sponge Kidney ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Kidney and Urologic Diseases Information Clearinghouse)
  * Polycystic Kidney Disease (PKD) (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish
  * Simple Kidney Cysts ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)

## Genetics

  * Genetics Home Reference: Meckel syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: medullary cystic kidney disease type 1 ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: nephronophthisis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: polycystic kidney disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Videos and Tutorials

  * What Is Polycystic Kidney Disease? (Dolan DNA Learning Center)

## Statistics and Research

  * Kidney Disease Statistics for the United States ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)

## Clinical Trials

  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Kidney Diseases, Cystic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Polycystic Kidney Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

  * Article: How does contrast-enhanced ultrasonography influence Bosniak classification for complex cystic renal...
  * Article: Embryonic and foetal expression patterns of the ciliopathy gene CEP164.
  * Article: Monkeys mutant for PKD1 recapitulate human autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease.
  * Kidney Cysts -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

  * Kidneys and How They Work ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) Also in Spanish
  * Kidneys and Urinary Tract (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Find an Expert

  * Find a Urologist (Urology Care Foundation)
  * National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Children

  * Kidney Dysplasia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Kidney and Urologic Diseases Information Clearinghouse)

## Patient Handouts

  * Acquired Cystic Kidney Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)
  * Medullary cystic kidney disease (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Polycystic kidney disease (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Kidney Cysts](https://medlineplus.gov/images/KidneyCyst.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

  * Abdominal CT scan
  * Abdominal MRI
  * Medullary cystic kidney disease
  * Polycystic kidney disease

## Related Health Topics

  * Kidney Diseases
  * Kidney Failure
  * Kidney Tests
  * Kidney Transplantation

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Kidney Cysts is the National
Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 26 February 2020 Topic last reviewed: 10 August 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

