Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001414.htm    
                                Description: An aneurysm is a weak area in the wall of a blood vessel that causes the blood vessel to bulge or balloon out. When an aneurysm occurs in a blood vessel of the brain, it is called a cerebral, or intracranial,    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Aneurysm in the brain

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001414.htm

# Aneurysm in the brain

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An aneurysm is a weak area in the wall of a blood vessel that causes the blood
vessel to bulge or balloon out. When an aneurysm occurs in a blood vessel of
the brain, it is called a cerebral, or intracranial, aneurysm.

## Causes

Aneurysms in the brain occur when there is a weakened area in the wall of a
blood vessel. An aneurysm may be present from birth (congenital). Or, it may
develop later in life.

There are many types of brain aneurysms. The most common type is called a
berry aneurysm. This type can vary in size from a few millimeters to over a
centimeter. Giant berry aneurysms can be bigger than 2.5 centimeters. These
are more common in adults. Berry aneurysms, especially when there is more than
one, are sometimes passed down through families.

![Cerebral
aneurysm](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200047t.gif)Watch this
video about:Cerebral aneurysm

Other types of cerebral aneurysms involve widening of an entire blood vessel.
Or, they may appear as a ballooning out of part of a blood vessel. Such
aneurysms can occur in any blood vessel that supplies the brain. Hardening of
arteries (atherosclerosis), trauma, and infection can all injure the blood
vessel wall and cause cerebral aneurysms.

Brain aneurysms are common. One in fifty people has a brain aneurysm, but only
a small number of these aneurysms cause symptoms or rupture.

Risk factors include:

    * Family history of cerebral aneurysms
    * Medical problems such as polycystic kidney disease, coarctation of the aorta, and endocarditis
    * High blood pressure, smoking, alcohol, and illegal drug use 

## Symptoms

A person may have an aneurysm without having any symptoms. This kind of
aneurysm may be found when an MRI or CT scan of the brain is done for another
reason.

A brain aneurysm may begin to leak a small amount of blood. This may cause a
severe headache that a person may describe as "the worst headache of my life."
It may be called a thunderclap or sentinel headache. This means the headache
could be a warning sign of a future rupture that may occur days to weeks after
the headache first started.

Symptoms may also occur if the aneurysm pushes on nearby structures in the
brain or breaks open (ruptures) and causes bleeding into the brain.

Symptoms depend on the location of the aneurysm, whether it breaks open, and
what part of the brain it is pushing on. Symptoms may include:

    * Double vision
    * Loss of vision
    * Headaches
    * Eye pain
    * Neck pain
    * Stiff neck
    * Ringing in the ears

A sudden, severe headache is one symptom of an aneurysm that has ruptured.
Other symptoms of an aneurysm rupture may include:

    * Confusion, no energy, sleepiness, stupor, or coma
    * Eyelid drooping
    * Headaches with nausea or vomiting
    * Muscle weakness or difficulty moving any part of the body
    * Numbness or decreased sensation in any part of the body
    * Problems speaking
    * Seizures
    * Stiff neck (occasionally)
    * Vision changes (double vision, loss of vision)
    * Loss of consciousness

NOTE: A ruptured aneurysm is a medical emergency. Call your local emergency
number, such as 911.

## Exams and Tests

An eye exam may show signs of increased pressure in the brain, including
swelling of the optic nerve or bleeding into the retina of the eye. A clinical
exam may show abnormal eye movement, speech, strength, or sensation.

The following tests may be used to diagnose a cerebral aneurysm and determine
the cause of bleeding in the brain:

    * Cerebral angiography or spiral CT scan angiography (CTA) of the head to show the location and size of the aneurysm
    * Spinal tap
    * CT scan of the head
    * Electrocardiogram (ECG)
    * MRI of the head or MRI angiogram (MRA)

## Treatment

Two common methods are used to repair an aneurysm.

    * Clipping is done during open brain surgery (craniotomy).
    * Endovascular repair is most often done. It usually involves a coil or coiling and stenting. This is a less invasive and most common way to treat aneurysms. 

Not all aneurysms need to be treated right away. Those that are very small
(less than 3 mm) are less likely to break open.

Your health care provider will help you decide whether or not it is safer to
have surgery to block off the aneurysm before it can break open. Sometimes
people are too ill to have surgery, or it may be too dangerous to treat the
aneurysm because of its location.

A ruptured aneurysm is an emergency that needs to be treated right away.
Treatment may involve:

    * Being admitted to the hospital's intensive care unit (ICU)
    * Complete bed rest and activity restrictions
    * Drainage of blood from the brain area (cerebral ventricular drainage)
    * Medicines to prevent seizures
    * Medicines to control headaches and blood pressure
    * Medicines through a vein (IV) to prevent infection 

Once the aneurysm is repaired, treatment may be needed to prevent a stroke
from a blood vessel spasm.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well you do depends on many things. People who are in a deep coma after an
aneurysm rupture do not do as well as those with less severe symptoms.

Ruptured cerebral aneurysms are often deadly. Of those who survive, some have
no permanent disability. Others have moderate to severe disability.

## Possible Complications

Complications of aneurysm in the brain may include:

    * Increased pressure inside the skull
    * Hydrocephalus, which is caused by an accumulation of cerebrospinal fluid in the ventricles of the brain
    * Loss of movement in one or more parts of the body
    * Loss of sensation of any part of the face or body
    * Seizures
    * Stroke
    * Subarachnoid hemorrhage

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Go to the emergency room or call the local emergency number (such as 911) if
you have a sudden or severe headache, especially if you also have nausea,
vomiting, seizures, or any other nervous system symptom.

Also call if you have a headache that is unusual for you, especially if it is
severe or your worst headache ever.

## Prevention

There is no known way to prevent a berry aneurysm from forming. Treating high
blood pressure may reduce the chance that an existing aneurysm will rupture.
Controlling risk factors for atherosclerosis may reduce the likelihood of some
types of aneurysms.

People who are known to have an aneurysm may need regular doctor visits to
make sure the aneurysm is not changing size or shape.

If unruptured aneurysms are discovered in time, they can be treated before
causing problems or monitored with regular imaging (usually yearly).

The decision to repair an unruptured cerebral aneurysm is based on the size
and location of the aneurysm, and the person's age and general health.

## Alternative Names

Aneurysm - cerebral; Cerebral aneurysm; Aneurysm - intracranial

## Patient Instructions

    * Brain aneurysm repair - discharge
    * Headache - what to ask your doctor 

## Images

    * ![Cerebral aneurysm](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17031t.jpg)Cerebral aneurysm
    * ![Cerebral aneurysm](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19430t.jpg)Cerebral aneurysm

## References

American Stroke Association website. What you should know about cerebral
aneurysms.
www.strokeassociation.org/STROKEORG/AboutStroke/TypesofStroke/HemorrhagicBleeds/What-
You-Should-Know-About-Cerebral-Aneurysms_UCM_310103_Article.jsp#.Wv1tfUiFO1t.
Updated November 14, 2016. Accessed June 5, 2018.

National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke website. Cerebral
aneurysms fact sheet. www.ninds.nih.gov/Disorders/Patient-Caregiver-
Education/Fact-Sheets/Cerebral-Aneurysms-Fact-Sheet. Updated December 20,
2016. Accessed June 5, 2018.

Szeder V, Tateshima S, Duckwiler GR. Intracranial aneurysms and subarachnoid
hemorrhage. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds.
_Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 67.

Thompson BG, Brown RD Jr, Amin-Hanjani S, et al. Guidelines for the management
of patients with unruptured intracranial aneurysms: a guideline for healthcare
professionals from the American Heart Association/American Stroke Association.
_Stroke_. 2015:46(8):2368-2400. PMID: 26089327
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26089327.

## Review Date 4/4/2018

Updated by: Luc Jasmin, MD, PhD, FRCS (C), FACS, Department of Surgery,
Holston Valley Medical Center, TN; Department of Maxillofacial Surgery at
UCSF, San Francisco, CA. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Brain
Aneurysm](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BrainAneurysm2_thumb.jpg)Brain
Aneurysm _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

