Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000103.htm    
                                Description: Heart bypass surgery creates a new route, called a bypass, for blood and oxygen to reach your heart.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Heart bypass surgery - minimally invasive - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000103.htm

# Heart bypass surgery - minimally invasive - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Heart bypass surgery creates a new route, called a bypass, for blood and
oxygen to reach your heart.

Minimally invasive coronary (heart) artery bypass can be done without stopping
the heart. Therefore, you DO NOT need to be put on a heart-lung machine for
this procedure.

This article discusses what you need to do to care for yourself after you
leave the hospital.

## When You're in the Hospital

You had minimally invasive coronary artery bypass surgery on one or more of
your coronary arteries. Your surgeon used an artery from your chest to create
a detour, or bypass, around arteries that were blocked and could not bring
blood to your heart. A 3- to 5-inch-long (7.5 to 12.5 centimeters) cut
(incision) was made in the left part of your chest between your ribs. This
allowed your doctor to reach your heart.

## What to Expect at Home

You may be able to leave the hospital 2 or 3 days after surgery. You may also
be able to return to normal activities after 2 or 3 weeks.

After surgery, it is normal to:

    * Feel tired.
    * Have some shortness of breath. This may be worse if you also have lung problems. Some people may use oxygen when they go home.
    * Have pain in the chest area around the wound. 

## Self-care

You may want to have someone stay with you in your home for the first week.

Learn how to check your pulse, and check it every day.

![Taking your carotid
pulse](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19386.jpg)![Radial
pulse](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19395.jpg)

Do the breathing exercises you learned in the hospital for the first 1 to 2
weeks.

Weigh yourself every day.

Shower every day, washing your incision gently with soap and water. DO NOT
swim, soak in a hot tub, or take baths until your incision is completely
healed. Follow a heart-healthy diet.

If you are feeling depressed, talk with your family and friends. Ask your
health care provider about getting help from a counselor.

Continue to take all your medicines for your heart, diabetes, high blood
pressure, or any other conditions you have.

    * DO NOT stop taking any medicine without talking with your provider.
    * Your provider may recommend antiplatelet drugs (blood thinners) -- such as aspirin, clopidogrel (Plavix), prasugrel (Effient), or ticagrelor (Brilinta) -- to help keep your artery graft open.
    * If you are taking a blood thinner such as warfarin (Coumadin), you may have extra blood tests to make sure your dose is correct. 

Know how to respond to angina symptoms.

## Activity

Stay active during your recovery, but start slowly. Ask your provider how
active you should be.

    * Walking is a good exercise after surgery. DO NOT worry about how fast you walk. Take it slow.
    * Climbing stairs is OK, but be careful. Balance may be a problem. Rest halfway up the stairs if you need to.
    * Light household chores, such as setting the table and folding clothes should be OK.
    * Slowly increase the amount and intensity of your activities over the first 3 months.
    * DO NOT exercise outside when it is too cold or too hot.
    * Stop if you feel short of breath, dizzy, or any pain in your chest. Avoid any activity or exercise that causes pulling or pain across your chest, such as using a rowing machine or weight lifting.
    * Keep your incision area protected from the sun to avoid sunburn. 

Be careful how you use your arms and upper body when you move around for the
first 2 or 3 weeks after your surgery. Ask your provider when you may return
to work. For the first week after surgery:

    * DO NOT reach backward.
    * DO NOT let anyone pull on your arms for any reason -- for instance, if they are helping you move around or get out of bed.
    * DO NOT lift anything heavier than about 10 pounds (4.5 kilograms). (This is a little more than a gallon, or 4 liters, of milk.)
    * Avoid other activities in which you need to keep your arms above your shoulders for any period of time.
    * DO NOT drive. The twisting involved in turning the steering wheel may pull on your incision. 

You may be referred to a cardiac rehabilitation program. You will get
information and counseling about activity, diet, and exercise.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

    * You have chest pain or shortness of breath that does not go away when you rest.
    * Your pulse feels irregular -- it is very slow (fewer than 60 beats a minute) or very fast (over 100 to 120 beats a minute).
    * You have dizziness, fainting, or you are very tired.
    * You have a severe headache that does not go away.
    * You have a cough that does not go away.
    * You are coughing up blood or yellow or green mucus.
    * You have problems taking any of your heart medicines.
    * Your weight goes up by more than 2 pounds (1 kilogram) in a day for 2 days in a row.
    * Your wound is red or swelling, it has opened, or there is more drainage coming from it.
    * You have chills or a fever over 101Â°F (38.3Â°C).

## Alternative Names

Minimally invasive direct coronary artery bypass - discharge; MIDCAB -
discharge; Robot assisted coronary artery bypass - discharge; RACAB -
discharge; Keyhole heart surgery - discharge; Coronary artery disease - MIDCAB
discharge; CAD - MIDCAB discharge

## Images

    * ![Heart bypass surgery incision](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22941t.jpg)Heart bypass surgery incision
    * ![Taking your carotid pulse](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19386t.jpg)Taking your carotid pulse
    * ![Radial pulse](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19395t.jpg)Radial pulse

## References

Fihn SD, Blankenship JC, Alerxander KP, et al. 2014 ACC/AHA/AATS/PCNA/SCAI/STS
focused update of the guideline for the diagnosis and management of patients
with stable ischemic heart disease: a report of the American College of
Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on practice guidelines, and
the American Association for Thoracic Surgery, Preventive Cardiovascular
Nurses Association, Society for Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions,
and Society of Thoracic Surgeons. _Circulation_. 2014;130(19):1749-1767. PMID:
25070666 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25070666.

Fihn SD, Gardin JM, Abrams J, et al. 2012 ACCF/AHA/ACP/AATS/PCNA/SCAI/STS
guideline for the diagnosis and management of patients with stable ischemic
heart disease: executive summary: a report of the American College of
Cardiology Foundation/American Heart Association Task Force on practice
guidelines, and the American College of Physicians, American Association for
Thoracic Surgery, Preventive Cardiovascular Nurses Association, Society for
Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions, and Society of Thoracic
Surgeons. _Circulation_. 2012;126(25):3097-3137. PMID: 23166210
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23166210.

Fleg JL, Forman DE, Berra K, et al. Secondary prevention of atherosclerotic
cardiovascular disease in older adults: a scientific statement from the
American Heart Association. _Circulation_. 2013;128(22):2422-2446. PMID:
24166575 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24166575.

Kulik A, Ruel M, Jneid H, et al. Secondary prevention after coronary artery
bypass graft surgery: a scientific statement from the American Heart
Association. _Circulation_. 2015;131(10):927-964. PMID: 25679302
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25679302.

Morrow DA, de Lemos JA. Stable ischemic heart disease. In: Zipes DP, Libby P,
Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease:
A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 61.

Omer S, Cornwell LD, Bakaeen FG. Acquired heart disease. In: Townsend CM Jr,
Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 59.

## Read More

    * Angina
    * Coronary heart disease
    * Heart bypass surgery - minimally invasive
    * Heart failure - overview
    * High blood cholesterol levels
    * Tips on how to quit smoking

## Patient Instructions

    * Angina - discharge
    * Angina - what to ask your doctor 
    * Angina - when you have chest pain
    * Antiplatelet drugs - P2Y12 inhibitors
    * Aspirin and heart disease
    * Being active after your heart attack
    * Being active when you have heart disease
    * Butter, margarine, and cooking oils
    * Cholesterol and lifestyle
    * Controlling your high blood pressure
    * Dietary fats explained
    * Fast food tips
    * Heart attack - discharge
    * Heart attack - what to ask your doctor
    * Heart bypass surgery - discharge
    * Heart disease - risk factors
    * How to read food labels
    * Mediterranean diet

## Review Date 7/25/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Coronary Artery Bypass Surgery

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

