Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000102.htm    
                                Description: Heart bypass surgery creates a new route, called a bypass, for blood and oxygen to go around a blockage to reach your heart. The surgery is used to treat coronary heart disease. This articles discusses    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Heart bypass surgery - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000102.htm

# Heart bypass surgery - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Heart bypass surgery creates a new route, called a bypass, for blood and
oxygen to go around a blockage to reach your heart. The surgery is used to
treat coronary heart disease. This articles discusses what you need to do to
care for yourself when you leave the hospital.

## When you Were in the Hospital

Your surgeon took a vein or artery from another part of your body to create a
detour, or bypass, around an artery that was blocked and could not bring
enough blood to your heart.

Your surgery was done through an incision (cut) in your chest. If the surgeon
went through your breastbone, the surgeon repaired it with wire and a metal
plate, and your skin was closed with stitches. You also had an incision made
in your leg or arm, where the vein was taken to be used for the bypass.

## What to Expect at Home

After surgery, it takes 4 to 6 weeks to completely heal and start feeling
better. It is normal to:

    * Have pain in your chest area around your incision
    * Have a poor appetite for 2 to 4 weeks
    * Have mood swings and feel depressed
    * Have swelling in the leg that the vein graft was taken from
    * Feel itchy, numb, or tingly around the incisions on your chest and leg for 6 months or more
    * Have trouble sleeping at night
    * Be constipated from pain medicines
    * Have trouble with short-term memory or feel confused ("fuzzy-headed")
    * Be tired or not have much energy
    * Have some shortness of breath. This may be worse if you also have lung problems. Some people may use oxygen when they go home.
    * Have weakness in your arms for the first month 

## Self-care

You should have someone stay with you in your home for at least the first 1Â
to 2 weeks after surgery.

Learn how to check your pulse, and check it every day.

![Taking your carotid
pulse](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19386.jpg)![Pulso
radial](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/19395.jpg)

Do the breathing exercises you learned in the hospital for 4 to 6 weeks.

Shower every day, washing the incision gently with soap and water. DO NOT
swim, soak in a hot tub, or take baths until your incision is completely
healed. Follow a heart-healthy diet.

If you feel depressed, talk with your family and friends. Ask your health care
provider about getting help from a counselor.

Continue to take all your medicines for your heart, diabetes, high blood
pressure, or any other conditions you have.

    * DO NOT stop taking any medicine without first talking with your provider.
    * Your provider may recommend antiplatelet (blood-thinning) drugs such as aspirin, clopidogrel (Plavix), prasugrel (Effient), or ticagrelor (Brilinta) to help keep your artery graft open.
    * If you are taking a blood thinner, such as warfarin (Coumadin), you may need to have extra blood tests to make sure your dose is correct. 

Know how to respond to angina symptoms.

## Activity

Stay active during your recovery, but start slowly.

    * DO NOT stand or sit in the same spot for too long. Move around a little bit.
    * Walking is a good exercise for the lungs and heart after surgery. DO NOT be concerned about how fast you are walking. Take it slow.
    * Climbing stairs is OK, but be careful. Balance may be a problem. Rest halfway up the stairs if you need to.
    * Light household chores, such as setting the table, folding clothes, walking, and climbing stairs, should be OK.
    * Slowly increase the amount and intensity of your activities over the first 3 months.
    * DO NOT exercise outside when it is too cold or too hot.
    * Stop if you feel short of breath, dizzy, or any pain in your chest. DO NOT do any activity or exercise that causes pulling or pain across your chest, such as using a rowing machine or weight lifting.
    * Keep your incision areas protected from the sun to avoid sunburn. 

DO NOT drive for at least 4 to 6 weeks after your surgery. The twisting
involved in turning the steering wheel may pull on your incision. Ask your
provider when you may return to work, and expect to be away from work for
about 6 to 8 weeks.

DO NOT travel for at least 2 to 4 weeks. Ask your provider when travel is OK.
Also ask your provider before starting sexual activity again. Most of the time
it is OK after 4 weeks.

You may be referred to a formal cardiac rehabilitation program. You will get
information and counseling regarding activity, diet, and supervised exercise.

## Wound Care

For the first 6 weeks after your surgery, you must be careful about using your
arms and upper body when you move.

    * DO NOT reach backward.
    * DO NOT let anyone pull on your arms for any reason -- for instance, if they are helping you move around or get out of bed.
    * DO NOT lift anything heavier than 5 to 7 pounds (2 to 3 kilograms).
    * DO NOT do even light housework for at least 2 to 3 weeks.
    * Check with your provider before using your arms and shoulder more. 

Brushing your teeth is OK, but DO NOT do other activities that keep your arms
above your shoulders for any period of time. Keep your arms close to your
sides when you are using them to get out of bed or a chair. You may bend
forward to tie your shoes. Always stop if you feel pulling on your breastbone.

Your provider will tell you how to take care of your chest wound. You will
likely be asked to clean your surgical cut every day with soap and water, and
gently dry it. DO NOT use any creams, lotions, powders, or oils unless your
provider tells you it is OK.

If you had a cut or incision on your leg:

    * Keep your legs raised when sitting.
    * Wear elastic TED hose for 2 to 3 weeks until the swelling goes away and you are more active. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

    * You have chest pain or shortness of breath that does not go away when you rest.
    * Your pulse feels irregular -- it is very slow (fewer than 60 beats a minute) or very fast (over 100 to 120 beats a minute).
    * You have dizziness, fainting, or you are very tired.
    * You have a severe headache that does not go away.
    * You have a cough that does not go away
    * You are coughing up blood or yellow or green mucus.
    * You have problems taking any of your heart medicines.
    * Your weight goes up by more than 2 pounds (1 kilogram) in a day for 2 days in a row.
    * Your wound changes. It is red or swollen, it has opened, or there is more drainage coming from it.
    * You have chills or a fever over 101Â°F (38.3Â°C).

## Alternative Names

Off-pump coronary artery bypass - discharge; OPCAB - discharge; Beating heart
surgery - discharge; Bypass surgery - heart - discharge; CABG - discharge;
Coronary artery bypass graft - discharge; Coronary artery bypass surgery -
discharge; Coronary bypass surgery - discharge; CAD - bypass discharge;
Coronary artery disease - bypass discharge

## Images

    * ![How to take your pulse](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22942t.jpg)How to take your wrist pulse
    * ![Taking your carotid pulse](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19386t.jpg)Taking your carotid pulse

## References

Fihn SD, Blankenship JC, Alexander KP, et al. 2014 ACC/AHA/AATS/PCNA/SCAI/STS
focused update of the guideline for the diagnosis and management of patients
with stable ischemic heart disease: a report of the American College of
Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines, and
the American Association for Thoracic Surgery, Preventive Cardiovascular
Nurses Association, Society for Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions,
and Society of Thoracic Surgeons. _Circulation_. 2014;130(19):1749-1767. PMID:
25070666 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25070666.

Fihn SD, Gardin JM, Abrams J, et al. 2012 ACCF/AHA/ACP/AATS/PCNA/SCAI/STS
guideline for the diagnosis and management of patients with stable ischemic
heart disease: a report of the American College of Cardiology
Foundation/American Heart Association task force on practice guidelines and
the American College of Physicians, American Association for Thoracic Surgery,
Preventive Cardiovascular Nurses Association, Society for Cardiovascular
Angiography and Interventions, and Society of Thoracic Surgeons.
_Circulation_. 2012;126(25):3097-3137. PMID: 23166210
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23166210.

Fleg JL, Forman DE, Berra K, et al. Secondary prevention of atherosclerotic
cardiovascular disease in older adults: a scientific statement from the
American Heart Association. _Circulation_. 2013;128(22):2422-2446. PMID:
24166575 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24166575.

Kulik A, Ruel M, Jneid H, et al. Secondary prevention after coronary artery
bypass graft surgery: a scientific statement from the American Heart
Association. _Circulation_. 2015;131(10):927-964. PMID: 25679302
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25679302.

Morrow DA, de Lemos JA. Stable ischemic heart disease. In: Zipes DP, Libby P,
Bonow RO, Mann DL, Tomaselli GF, Braunwald E, eds. _Braunwald's Heart Disease:
A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 61.

Omer S, Cornwell LD, Bakaeen FG. Acquired heart disease: coronary
insufficiency. In: Townsend CM Jr, Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds.
_Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap
59.

## Read More

    * Angina
    * Coronary heart disease
    * Heart bypass surgery
    * Heart failure - overview
    * High blood cholesterol levels
    * Tips on how to quit smoking

## Patient Instructions

    * Angina - discharge
    * Angina - what to ask your doctor 
    * Angina - when you have chest pain
    * Antiplatelet drugs - P2Y12 inhibitors
    * Aspirin and heart disease
    * Being active after your heart attack
    * Being active when you have heart disease
    * Butter, margarine, and cooking oils
    * Cholesterol and lifestyle
    * Controlling your high blood pressure
    * Dietary fats explained
    * Fast food tips
    * Heart attack - discharge
    * Heart attack - what to ask your doctor
    * Heart bypass surgery - minimally invasive - discharge
    * Heart disease - risk factors
    * How to read food labels
    * Mediterranean diet
    * Surgical wound care - open
    * Wet-to-dry dressing changes

## Review Date 7/25/2018

Updated by: Michael A. Chen, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington
Medical School, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Coronary Artery Bypass Surgery

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

