Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000703.htm    
                                Description: Bedwetting or nocturnal enuresis is when a child wets the bed at night more than twice a month after age 5 or 6.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bedwetting

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000703.htm

# Bedwetting

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Bedwetting or nocturnal enuresis is when a child wets the bed at night more
than twice a month after age 5 or 6.

## Causes

The last stage of toilet training is staying dry at night. To stay dry at
night, your child's brain and bladder must work together so your child wakes
up to go to the bathroom. Some children develop this ability later than
others.

Bedwetting is very common. Millions of children in the United States wet the
bed at night. Some children still wet the bed at age 7, or even older.
Although the problem usually goes away over time, many children, and even a
small number of adults, continue to have bedwetting episodes.

Bedwetting also runs in families. Parents who wet the bed as children are more
likely to have children who wet the bed.

There are 2 types of bedwetting.

    * Primary enuresis. Children who have never been consistently dry at night. This most often occurs when the body makes more urine overnight than the bladder can hold, and the child does not wake up when the bladder is full. The child's brain has not learned to respond to the signal that the bladder is full. It is not the child's or the parent's fault. This is the most common reason for bedwetting.
    * Secondary enuresis. Children who were dry for at least 6 months, but started bedwetting again. There are many reasons that children wet the bed after being fully toilet trained. It might be physical, emotional, or just a change in sleep. This is less common, but still not the fault of the child or parent. 

While less common, physical causes of bedwetting may include:

    * Lower spinal cord lesions
    * Birth defects of the genitourinary tract
    * Urinary tract infections
    * Diabetes 

## Self-care at Home

Remember that your child has no control over bedwetting. So, try to be
patient. Your child also may feel embarrassed and ashamed about it, so tell
your child that many children wet the bed. Let your child know you want to
help. Above all, do not punish your child or ignore the problem. Neither
approach will help.

Take these steps to help your child overcome bedwetting.

    * Help your child understand not to hold urine for a long time.
    * Make sure your child goes to the bathroom at normal times during the day and evening.
    * Be sure your child goes to the bathroom before going to sleep.
    * It is OK to reduce the amount of fluid your child drinks a few hours before bedtime. Just do not overdo it.
    * Reward your child for dry nights. 

You might also try using a bedwetting alarm. These alarms are small and easy
to buy without a prescription. The alarms work by waking children when they
start to urinate. Then they can get up and use the bathroom.

    * Bedwetting alarms work best if you use them every night.
    * Alarm training can take several months to work properly.
    * Once your child is dry for 3 weeks, continue using the alarm for another 2 weeks. Then stop.
    * You may need to train your child more than once. 

You may also want to use a chart or keep a diary that your children can mark
each morning they wake up dry. This is especially helpful for children, ages 5
to 8 years old. Diaries allow you to see patterns in your child's habits that
may help. You can also show this diary to your child's doctor. Write down:

    * When your child urinates normally during the day
    * Any wetting episodes
    * What your child eats and drinks during the day (including time of meals)
    * When your child naps, goes to sleep at night, and gets up in the morning 

## When to Call Your Doctor

Always notify your child's health care provider of any bedwetting episodes. A
child should have a physical exam and a urine test to rule out urinary tract
infection or other causes.

Contact your child's provider right away if your child is having pain with
urination, fever, or blood in the urine. These may be signs of an infection
that will need treatment.

You should also call your child's provider:

    * If your child was dry for 6 months, then started bedwetting again. The provider will look for the cause of the bedwetting before recommending treatment.
    * If you have tried self-care at home and your child is still wetting the bed. 

Your child's doctor may prescribe a medicine called DDAVP (desmopressin) to
treat bedwetting. It will decrease the amount of urine produced at night. It
can be prescribed short-term for sleepovers, or used long-term for months.
Some parents find that bedwetting alarms combined with medicine work best.
Your child's provider will work with you to find the right solution for you
and your child.

## Alternative Names

Enuresis; Nocturnal enuresis

## References

Capdevilia OS. Sleep related enuresis. In: Sheldon SH, Ferber R, Krygger MH,
Gozal D, eds. _Principles and Practice of Pediatric Sleep Medicine_. 2nd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 13.

Elder JS. Enuresis and voiding dysfunction. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St.
Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 543.

Leung AKC. Nocturnal enuresis. In: Kellerman RD, Bope ET, eds. _Conn's Current
Therapy 2018_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:1189-1192.

## Review Date 2/19/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Bedwetting

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

