Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000598.htm    
                                Description: Botulism is a rare but serious illness caused by Clostridium botulinum bacteria. The bacteria may enter the body through wounds, or by eating them from improperly canned or preserved food.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Botulism

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000598.htm

# Botulism

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Botulism is a rare but serious illness caused by _Clostridium botulinum_
bacteria. The bacteria may enter the body through wounds, or by eating them
from improperly canned or preserved food.

## Causes

_Clostridium botulinum_ is found in soil and untreated water throughout the
world. It produces spores that survive in improperly preserved or canned food,
where they produce a toxin. When eaten, even tiny amounts of this toxin can
lead to severe poisoning. Foods that can be contaminated are home-canned
vegetables, cured pork and ham, smoked or raw fish, and honey or corn syrup,
baked potatoes cooked in foil, carrot juice, and chopped garlic in oil.

Infant botulism occurs when a baby eats spores and the bacteria grow in the
baby's gastrointestinal tract. The most common cause of infant botulism is
eating honey or corn syrup or using pacifiers that have been coated with
contaminated honey.

 _Clostridium botulinum_ can be found normally in the stool of some infants.
Infants develop botulism when the bacteria grow in their gut.

Botulism may also occur if the bacteria enter open wounds and produce toxins
there.

About 110 cases of botulism occur in the United States each year. Most of the
cases are in infants.

## Symptoms

Symptoms often appear 8 to 36 hours after you eat food contaminated with the
toxin. There is NO fever with this infection.

In adults, symptoms may include:

    * Abdominal cramps
    * Breathing difficulty that may lead to respiratory failure
    * Difficulty swallowing and speaking
    * Double vision
    * Nausea
    * Vomiting
    * Weakness with paralysis (equal on both sides of the body) 

Symptoms in infants may include:

    * Constipation
    * Drooling
    * Poor feeding and weak sucking
    * Respiratory distress
    * Weak cry
    * Weakness, loss of muscle tone 

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. There may be signs of:

    * Absent or decreased deep tendon reflexes
    * Absent or decreased gag reflex
    * Eyelid drooping
    * Loss of muscle function, starting at the top of the body and moving down
    * Paralyzed bowel
    * Speech impairment
    * Urine retention with inability to urinate
    * Blurred vision
    * No fever 

Blood tests can be done to identify the toxin. A stool culture may also be
ordered. Lab tests can be done on the suspected food to confirm botulism.

## Treatment

You will need medicine to fight the toxin produced by the bacteria. The
medicine is called botulinus antitoxin.

You will have to stay in the hospital if you have breathing trouble. A tube
may be inserted through the nose or mouth into the windpipe to provide an
airway for oxygen. You may need a breathing machine.

People who have trouble swallowing may be given fluids through a vein (by IV).
A feeding tube may be inserted.

Providers must tell state health authorities or the US Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention about people with botulism, so that the contaminated
food is removed from stores.

Some people are given antibiotics, but they may not always help.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Prompt treatment significantly reduces the risk for death.

## Possible Complications

Health problems that may result from botulism include:

    * Aspiration pneumonia and infection
    * Long-lasting weakness
    * Nervous system problems for up to 1 year
    * Respiratory distress

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Go to the emergency room or call the local emergency number (such as 911) if
you suspect botulism.

## Prevention

NEVER give honey or corn syrup to infants younger than 1 year old -- not even
just a little taste on a pacifier.

Prevent infant botulism by breastfeeding only, if possible.

Always throw away bulging cans or foul-smelling preserved foods. Sterilizing
home-canned foods by pressure cooking them at 250Â°F (121Â°C) for 30 minutes
may reduce the risk for botulism. Visit the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention website for more information on home canning safety
(www.cdc.gov/features/homecanning).

Keep foil-wrapped baked potatoes hot or in the refrigerator, not at room
temperature. Oils with garlic or other herbs should also be refrigerated as
should carrot juice. Make sure to set the refrigerator temperature at 50Â°F
(10Â°C) or lower.

## Alternative Names

Infant botulism

## Images

    * ![Bacteria](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9095t.jpg)Bacteria

## References

Birch TB, Bleck TP. Botulism ( _Clostridium botulinum_ ). In: Bennett JE,
Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and
Practice of Infectious Diseases_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2020:chap 245.

Norton LE, Schleiss MR. Botulism ( _Clostridium botulinum_ ). In: Kliegman RM,
St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 237.

## Review Date 8/25/2019

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Botulism](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Botulism_thumb.jpg)Botulism _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

