Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001384.htm    
                                Description: Infant botulism is a potentially life-threatening disease caused by a bacterium called Clostridium botulinum. It grows inside a baby    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Infant botulism

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001384.htm

# Infant botulism

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Infant botulism is a potentially life-threatening disease caused by a
bacterium called _Clostridium botulinum_. It grows inside a baby's
gastrointestinal tract.

## Causes

_Clostridium botulinum_ is a spore-forming organism that is common in nature.
The spores may be found in soil and certain foods (such as honey and some corn
syrups).

Infant botulism occurs mostly in young infants between 6 weeks and 6 months of
age. It may occur as early as early as 6 days and as late as 1 year.

Risk factors include swallowing honey as a baby, being around contaminated
soil, and having less than one stool per day for a period greater than 2
months.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

    * Breathing that stops or slows
    * Constipation
    * Eyelids that sag or partially close
    * "Floppy"
    * Absence of gagging
    * Loss of head control
    * Paralysis that spreads downward
    * Poor feeding and weak suckling
    * Respiratory failure
    * Extreme tiredness (lethargy)
    * Weak cry

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will do a physical exam. This may show a decreased
muscle tone, a missing or decreased gag reflex, missing or decreased deep
tendon reflexes, and eyelid drooping.

A stool sample from the baby may be checked for the botulinum toxin or
bacteria.

Electromyography (EMG) can be done to help tell the difference between muscle
and neurological problems.

## Treatment

Botulism immune globulin is the main treatment for this condition. Infants
that get this treatment have shorter hospital stays and milder illness.

Any infant with botulism must receive supportive care during their recovery.
This includes:

    * Ensuring proper nutrition
    * Keeping the airway clear
    * Watching for breathing problems 

If breathing problems develop, breathing support, including the use of a
breathing machine, may be needed.

Antibiotics do not appear to help the baby improve any faster. Therefore, they
are not needed unless another bacterial infection such as pneumonia develops.

The use of human-derived botulinum antitoxin may also be helpful.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

When the condition is detected and treated early, the child most often makes a
full recovery. Death or permanent disability may result in complicated cases.

## Possible Complications

Respiratory insufficiency can develop. This would require assistance with
breathing (mechanical ventilation).

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Infant botulism can be life threatening. Go to the emergency room or call the
local emergency number (such as 911) right away if your infant has symptoms of
botulism.

## Prevention

In theory, the disease might be avoided by preventing exposure to spores.
Clostridium spores are found in honey and corn syrup. These foods should not
be fed to infants less than 1 year old.

## References

Birch TB, Bleck TP. Botulism ( _Clostridium botulinum_ ). In: Bennett JE,
Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and
Practice of Infectious Diseases_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2020:chap 245.

Khouri JM, Arnon SS. Infant botulism. In: Cherry JD, Harrison GJ, Kaplan SL,
Steinbach WJ, Hotez PJ, eds. _Feigin and Cherry's Textbook of Pediatric
Infectious Diseases_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 147.

Norton LE, Schleiss MR. Botulism (Clostridium botulinum). In: Kliegman RM, St.
Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 237.

## Review Date 8/7/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Botulism](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Botulism_thumb.jpg)Botulism _Read
more_

![Infant and Newborn
Nutrition](https://medlineplus.gov/images/InfantandNewbornNutrition_thumb.jpg)Infant
and Newborn Nutrition _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

