Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000443.htm    
                                Description: Germs from a person may be found on any object the person touched or on equipment that was used during their care. Some germs can live up to 5 months on a dry surface.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cleaning supplies and equipment

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000443.htm

# Cleaning supplies and equipment

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Germs from a person may be found on any object the person touched or on
equipment that was used during their care. Some germs can live up to 5 months
on a dry surface.

Germs on any surface can pass to you or another person. This is why it is
important to disinfect supplies and equipment.

To disinfect something means to clean it to destroy germs. Disinfectants are
the cleaning solutions that are used to disinfect. Disinfecting supplies and
equipment help prevent the spread of germs.

Follow your workplace policies on how to clean supplies and equipment.

## Disinfecting Supplies and Equipment

Start by wearing the right personal protective equipment (PPE). Your workplace
has a policy or guidelines on what to wear in different situations. This
includes gloves and, when needed, a gown, shoe covers, and a mask. Always wash
your hands before putting on gloves and after taking them off.

Catheters or tubes that go into blood vessels are either:

    * Used only one time and then thrown away
    * Sterilized so they can be used again 

Clean reusable supplies, such as tubes like endoscopes, with an approved
cleaning solution and procedure before they are used again.

For equipment that touches only healthy skin, such as blood pressure cuffs and
stethoscopes:

    * DO NOT use on one person and then another person.
    * Clean with a light or medium-level cleaning solution between uses with different people. 

Use cleaning solutions approved by your workplace. Choosing the correct one is
based on:

    * The type of equipment and supplies you are cleaning
    * The type of germs you are destroying 

Read and follow directions carefully for each solution. You may need to allow
the disinfectant to dry on the equipment for a set period of time before
rinsing it off.

## References

Calfee DP. Prevention and control of health care-associated infections. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 266.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Disinfection and
sterilization.
www.cdc.gov/infectioncontrol/guidelines/disinfection/index.html. Updated May
24, 2019. Accessed October 22, 2019.

Quinn MM, Henneberger PK; National Institute for Occupational Safety and
Health (NIOSH), et al. Cleaning and disinfecting environmental surfaces in
health care: toward an integrated framework for infection and occupational
illness prevention. _Am J Infection Control_. 2015;43(5):424-434. PMID:
25792102 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25792102.

## Review Date 9/29/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Germs and Hygiene
    * Infection Control

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

