Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000454.htm    
                                Description: Germs from a person may be found on any object the person touched or on equipment that was used during the person    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Cleaning to prevent the spread of germs

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000454.htm

# Cleaning to prevent the spread of germs

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Germs from a person may be found on any object the person touched or on
equipment that was used during the person's care. Some germs can live up to 5
months on a dry surface.

Germs on any surface can pass to you or another person. Cleaning helps prevent
the spread of germs.

Your workplace has policies about how to clean:

    * Patient rooms
    * Spills or contamination
    * Supplies and equipment that are reusable 

## Cleaning a Patient's Room

Start by wearing the right personal protective equipment (PPE). Your workplace
has a policy or guidelines on what to wear. These policies may differ
depending on where in the hospital you are cleaning and the type of illness a
patient may have had. PPE includes gloves and, when needed, a gown, shoe
covers, and a mask. Always wash your hands before putting gloves on and after
taking gloves off.

When you remove bed sheets and towels:

    * Hold them away from your body and DO NOT shake them.
    * Watch for needles and other sharps.
    * DO NOT put the sheets and towels down on another surface in the room. Place them in the correct container.
    * Items that are wet or moist should go into a container that will not leak. 

Clean the bed rails, furniture, telephone, call light, door knobs, light
switches, bathroom, and all other objects and surfaces in the room. Also clean
the floor, including under the furniture. Use the disinfectant or cleaning
solution your workplace provides for these purposes.

Carefully put any sharps or needles in the sharps container.

When you clean the floors, change the cleaning liquid every hour. Use a fresh
mop every day.

## Cleaning Spills After Contamination

If your workplace does not have a spill response team for cleaning up blood or
other bodily fluids, you will need these supplies to clean up spills:

    * Paper towels.
    * Diluted bleach solution (be sure you know how to make this solution).
    * Biohazard bag.
    * Rubber gloves.
    * Forceps to pick up sharps or broken glass. Never use your hands, even though you will be wearing gloves. 

Make sure you are wearing the correct gloves, gown, mask, or shoe coverings
for the kind of spill you are cleaning up.

Before you start cleaning, mark the area of the spill with tape or barriers so
that no one enters the area or slips. Then:

    * Cover the spill with paper towels.
    * Spray the towels with the bleach solution and wait for 20 minutes.
    * Pick up the towels and put them in the biohazard bag.
    * Carefully put broken glass or sharps in a sharps container.
    * Use fresh paper towels to wipe the area with the bleach solution. Put them in the biohazard bag when done.
    * Throw your gloves, gown, and shoe covers into the biohazard bag.
    * Thoroughly wash your hands. 

When cleaning up large blood spills, use an approved solution to kill any
viruses such as hepatitis.

Always wash your hands after you take off your gloves.

## Alternative Names

Disinfection procedures

## References

Calfee DP. Prevention and control of health care-associated infections. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 266.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Disinfection and
sterilization.
www.cdc.gov/infectioncontrol/guidelines/disinfection/index.html. Updated May
24, 2019. Accessed October 22, 2019.

Quinn MM, Henneberger PK; National Institute for Occupational Safety and
Health (NIOSH), et al. Cleaning and disinfecting environmental surfaces in
health care: toward an integrated framework for infection and occupational
illness prevention. _Am J Infect Control_. 2015;43(5):424-434. PMID: 25792102
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25792102.

## Review Date 9/29/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Germs and Hygiene
    * Infection Control

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

