Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000449.htm    
                                Description: &quot;Staph&quot; (pronounced staff) is short for Staphylococcus. Staph is a germ (bacteria) that can cause infections in any part of the body, but most are skin infections. Staph can infect openings in the skin,    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Staph infections in the hospital

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000449.htm

# Staph infections in the hospital

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

"Staph" (pronounced staff) is short for Staphylococcus. Staph is a germ
(bacteria) that can cause infections in any part of the body, but most are
skin infections. Staph can infect openings in the skin, like scratches,
pimples, or skin cysts. Anyone can get a staph infection.

Hospital patients can get staph infections of the skin:

    * Anywhere a catheter or tube enters the body. This includes chest tubes, urinary catheters, IVs, or central lines
    * In surgical wounds, pressure sores (also called bed sores), or foot ulcers 

Once the staph germ enters the body, it can spread to bones, joints, and the
blood. It can also spread to any organ, such as the lungs, heart, or brain.

Staph can also spread from one person to another.

## Staph Infections in the Hospital

Staph germs are mostly spread by skin-to-skin contact (touching). A doctor,
nurse, other health care provider, or even visitors may have staph germs on
their body and then spread them to a patient. This can happen when:

    * A provider carries staph on the skin as normal bacteria.
    * A doctor, nurse, other provider, or visitor touches a person who has a staph infection.
    * A person develops a staph infection at home and brings this germ to the hospital. If the person then touches another person without washing their hands first, the staph germs may spread. 

Also, a patient may have a staph infection before coming to the hospital. This
can occur without the person even being aware of it.

In a few cases, people can get staph infections by touching clothing, sinks,
or other objects that have staph germs on them.

One type of staph germ, called methicillin-resistant _Staphylococcus aureus_
(MRSA), is harder to treat. This is because MRSA is not killed by certain
antibiotics used to treat ordinary staph germs.

## What are Risk Factors for Staph Infection?

Many healthy people normally have staph on their skin. Most of the time, it
does not cause an infection or symptoms. This is called being colonized with
staph. These people are known as carriers. They can spread staph to others.
Some people colonized with staph develop an actual staph infection that makes
them sick.

Common risk factors for developing a serious staph infection are:

    * Being in a hospital or other type of care facility for a long time
    * Having a weakened immune system or ongoing (chronic) illness
    * Having an open cut or sore
    * Having a medical device inside your body such as an artificial joint
    * Injecting medicines or illegal drugs
    * Living with or having close contact with a person who has staph
    * Being on kidney dialysis

## How Do You Know If You Have a Staph Infection?

Any time an area of your skin appears red, swollen, or crusty, a staph
infection may be the cause. The only way to know for sure is to have a test
called a skin culture. To do the culture, your provider may use a cotton swab
to collect a sample from an open wound, skin rash, or skin sore. A sample may
also be taken from a wound, blood, or sputum (phlegm). The sample is sent to
the lab for testing.

## Preventing Staph Infection in Hospitals

The best way to prevent the spread of staph for everyone is to keep their
hands clean. It is important to wash your hands thoroughly. To do this:

    * Wet your hands and wrists, then apply soap.
    * Rub your palms, backs of your hands, fingers, and in between your fingers until the soap is bubbly.
    * Rinse clean with running water.
    * Dry with a clean paper towel.
    * Use a paper towel to turn off the faucet. 

Alcohol-based gels may also be used if your hands are not visibly dirty.

    * These gels should be at least 60% alcohol.
    * Use enough gel to wet your hands completely.
    * Rub your hands until they are dry. 

Ask visitors to wash their hands before they come into your hospital room.
They should also wash their hands when they leave your room.

Health care workers and other hospital staff can prevent staph infection by:

    * Washing their hands before and after they touch every patient.
    * Wearing gloves and other protective clothing when they treat wounds, touch IVs and catheters, and when they handle bodily fluids.
    * Using the proper sterile techniques.
    * Promptly cleaning up after dressing (bandage) changes, procedures, surgeries, and spills.
    * Always using sterile equipment and sterile techniques when taking care of patients and equipment.
    * Checking for and promptly reporting any sign of wound infections. 

Many hospitals encourage patients to ask their providers if they have washed
their hands. As a patient, you have the right to ask.

## Images

    * ![Proper hand washing](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/22874t.jpg)Proper hand washing

## References

Calfee DP. Prevention and control of health care-associated infections. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 266.

Centers for Disease Control and Infection website. Healthcare settings:
preventing the spread of MRSA. www.cdc.gov/mrsa/healthcare/index.html. Updated
February 28, 2019. Accessed October 22, 2019.

Que YA, Moreillon P. Staphylococcus aureus (including Staphylococcal toxic
shock syndrome). In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas,
and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 194.

## Review Date 9/29/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Infection Control
    * MRSA

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

