Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000453.htm    
                                Description: A pathogen is something that causes disease. Germs that can cause long-lasting infection in human blood and disease in humans are called bloodborne pathogens.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bloodborne pathogens

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000453.htm

# Bloodborne pathogens

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A pathogen is something that causes disease. Germs that can cause long-lasting
infection in human blood and disease in humans are called bloodborne
pathogens.

The most common and dangerous germs spread through blood in the hospital are:

    * Hepatitis B virus (HBV) and hepatitis C virus (HCV). These viruses cause infections and liver damage.
    * HIV (human immunodeficiency virus). This virus causes HIV/AIDS.

You can be infected with HBV, HCV, or HIV if you are stuck with a needle or
other sharp object that has touched the blood or bodily fluids of a person who
has one of these infections.

These infections can also spread if infected blood or bloody bodily fluids
touch mucous membranes or an open sore or cut. Mucous membranes are the moist
parts of your body, such as in your eyes, nose, and mouth.

HIV can also spread from one person to another through fluid in your joints or
spinal fluid. And it can spread through semen, fluids in the vagina, breast
milk, and amniotic fluid (the fluid that surrounds a baby in the womb).

## More About Hepatitis and HIV infections

HEPATITIS

    * Symptoms of hepatitis B and hepatitis C may be mild, and not start until 2 weeks to 6 months after contact with the virus. Sometimes, there are no symptoms.
    * Hepatitis B often gets better on its own and sometimes does not need to be treated. Some people develop a long-term infection that leads to liver damage.
    * Most people who become infected with hepatitis C develop a long-term infection. After many years, they often have liver damage. 

HIV

After someone is infected with HIV, the virus stays in the body. It slowly
harms or destroys the immune system. Your body's immune system fights disease
and helps you heal. When it is weakened by HIV, you are more likely to get
sick from other infections, including ones that would not normally make you
sick.

Treatment can help people with all of these infections.

Hepatitis B can be prevented by a vaccine. There is no vaccine to prevent
hepatitis C or HIV.

## What to do if you are Exposed

If you are stuck with a needle, get blood in your eye, or are exposed to any
bloodborne pathogen:

    * Wash the area. Use soap and water on your skin. If your eye is exposed, irrigate with clean water, saline, or a sterile irrigant.
    *  _Tell your supervisor right away that you were exposed_.
    * Get medical help right away. 

You may or may not need lab tests, a vaccine, or medicines.

## Preventing Hepatitis and HIV Infections in the Hospital

Isolation precautions create barriers between people and germs. They help
prevent the spread of germs in the hospital.

Follow standard precautions with all people.

When you are near or are handling blood, bodily fluids, body tissues, mucous
membranes, or areas of open skin, you must use personal protective equipment
(PPE). Depending on the exposure, you may need:

    * Gloves
    * Mask and goggles
    * Apron, gown, and shoe covers 

It is also important to properly clean up afterward.

## Alternative Names

Bloodborne infections

## References

Beekman SE, Henderson DK. Occupational exposure to human immunodeficiency
virus and other bloodborne pathogens. In: Cameron JL, Cameron AM, eds.
_Current Surgical Therapy_. 12th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:1343-1346.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Bloodborne infectious
diseases: HIV/AIDS, hepatitis B, hepatitis C. www.cdc.gov/niosh/topics/bbp.
Updated January 29, 2018. Accessed February 21, 2018.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Disinfection and
sterilization.
www.cdc.gov/infectioncontrol/guidelines/disinfection/index.html. Updated
December 28, 2016. Accessed February 21, 2018.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Isolation precautions:
summary of recommendations.
www.cdc.gov/infectioncontrol/pdf/guidelines/isolation-guidelines.pdf. Updated
October 31, 2017. Accessed February 21, 2018.

## Review Date 11/20/2017

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * HIV/AIDS
    * Hepatitis
    * Infection Control

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

