Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000442.htm    
                                Description: Being exposed to sharps (needles) or body fluids means that another person    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

After an exposure to sharps or body fluids

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000442.htm

# After an exposure to sharps or body fluids

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Being exposed to sharps (needles) or body fluids means that another person's
blood or other body fluid touches your body. Exposure may occur after a
needlestick or sharps injury. It can also occur when blood or other body fluid
touches your skin, eyes, mouth, or other mucosal surface.

Exposure can put you at risk for infection.

## What to Do

After a needlestick or cut exposure, wash the area with soap and water. For a
splash exposure to the nose, mouth, or skin, flush with water. If exposure
occurs to the eyes, irrigate with clean water, saline, or sterile irrigant.

Report the exposure right away to your supervisor or the person in charge. DO
NOT decide on your own whether you need more care.

Your workplace will have a policy about what steps you should take after being
exposed. Often, there is a nurse or another health care provider who is the
expert on what to do. You will likely need lab tests, medicine, or a vaccine
right away. DO NOT delay telling someone after you have been exposed.

You will need to report:

    * How the needlestick or fluid exposure occurred
    * What type of needle or instrument you were exposed to
    * What fluid you were exposed to (such as blood, stool, saliva, or other body fluid)
    * How long the fluid was on your body
    * How much fluid there was
    * Whether there was blood from the person visible on the needle or instrument
    * Whether any blood or fluid was injected into you
    * Whether the fluid touched an open area on your skin
    * Where on your body the exposure was (such as skin, mucous membrane, eyes, mouth, or somewhere else)
    * Whether the person has hepatitis, HIV, or methicillin-resistant _Staphylococcus aureus_ (MRSA) 

## Risk of Illness

After exposure, there is a risk you may become infected with germs. These may
include:

    * Hepatitis B or C virus (causes liver infection)
    * HIV, the virus that causes AIDS
    * Bacteria, such as staph

Most of the time, the risk of becoming infected after exposure is low. But you
need to report any exposure right away. DO NOT wait.

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Sharps safety for
healthcare settings. www.cdc.gov/sharpssafety/resources.html. Updated February
11, 2015. Accessed October 22, 2019.

Riddell A, Kennedy I, Tong CY. Management of sharps injuries in the healthcare
setting. _BMJ_. 2015;351:h3733. PMID: 26223519
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26223519.

Wells JT, Perrillo R. Hepatitis B. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds.
_Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 79.

## Review Date 9/29/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Infection Control

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

