Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000448.htm    
                                Description: Infections are illnesses that are caused by germs such as bacteria, fungi, and viruses. Patients in the hospital are already ill. Exposing them to these germs may make it harder for them to recover and    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Preventing infections when visiting someone in the hospital

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000448.htm

# Preventing infections when visiting someone in the hospital

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Infections are illnesses that are caused by germs such as bacteria, fungi, and
viruses. Patients in the hospital are already ill. Exposing them to these
germs may make it harder for them to recover and go home.

If you are visiting a friend or loved one, you need to take steps to prevent
spreading germs.

The best way to stop the spread of germs is to wash your hands often, stay
home if you are sick, and to keep your vaccines up to date.

## Hand Washing and Alcohol-based Hand Cleaners

Clean your hands:

    * When you enter and leave a patient's room
    * After using the bathroom
    * After touching a patient
    * Before and after using gloves

Remind family, friends, and health care providers to wash their hands before
entering a patient's room.

To wash your hands:

    * Wet your hands and wrists, then apply soap.
    * Rub your hands together for at least 20 seconds so the soap gets bubbly.
    * Remove rings or scrub under them.
    * If your fingernails are dirty, use a scrub brush.
    * Rinse your hands clean with running water.
    * Dry your hands with a clean paper towel.
    * DO NOT touch the sink and faucets after you wash your hands. Use the paper towel to turn off the faucet and open the door.

You may also use alcohol-based hand cleaners (sanitizers) if your hands are
not visibly soiled.

    * Dispensers can be found in a patient's room and throughout a hospital or other health care facility.
    * Apply a dime-sized amount of sanitizer in the palm of one hand.
    * Rub your hands together, making sure all surfaces on both sides of your hands and between your fingers are covered.
    * Rub until your hands are dry.

## Stay Home If You are Sick

Staff and visitors should stay home if they feel sick or have a fever. This
helps protect everyone in the hospital.

If you think you were exposed to chickenpox, the flu, or any other infections,
stay home.

Remember, what may seem like just a little cold to you can be a big problem
for someone who is sick and in the hospital. If you are not sure if it is safe
to visit, call your provider and ask them about your symptoms before you visit
the hospital.

## Isolation

Anybody who visits a hospital patient who has an isolation sign outside their
door should stop at the nurses' station before entering the patient's room.

Isolation precautions create barriers that help prevent the spread of germs in
the hospital. They are needed to protect you and the patient you are visiting.
The precautions are also needed to protect other patients in the hospital.

When a patient is in isolation, visitors may:

    * Need to wear gloves, a gown, a mask, or some other covering
    * Need to avoid touching the patient
    * Not be allowed into a patient's room at all 

## Other Things You Can Do to Prevent Infections

Hospital patients who are very old, very young, or very ill are at the
greatest risk for harm from infections such as colds and the flu. To prevent
getting the flu and passing it to others, get a flu vaccine each year. (Ask
your doctor what other vaccines you need.)

When you visit a patient in the hospital, keep your hands away from your face.
Cough or sneeze into a tissue or into the crease of your elbow, not into the
air.

## References

Calfee DP. Prevention and control of health care-associated infections. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 266.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Infection control.
www.cdc.gov/infectioncontrol/index.html. Updated March 25, 2019. Accessed
October 22, 2019.

## Review Date 9/29/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Health Facilities
    * Infection Control

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

