Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000446.htm    
                                Description: Isolation precautions create barriers between people and germs. These types of precautions help prevent the spread of germs in the hospital.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Isolation precautions

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000446.htm

# Isolation precautions

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Isolation precautions create barriers between people and germs. These types of
precautions help prevent the spread of germs in the hospital.

Anybody who visits a hospital patient who has an isolation sign outside their
door should stop at the nurses' station before entering the patient's room.
The number of visitors and staff who enter the patient's room may be limited.

Different types of isolation precautions protect against different types of
germs.

## Standard Precautions

Follow standard precautions with all patients.

When you are close to or handling blood, bodily fluid, bodily tissues, mucous
membranes, or areas of open skin, you must use personal protective equipment
(PPE). Depending on the anticipated exposure, types of PPE required include:

    * Gloves
    * Masks and goggles
    * Aprons, gowns, and shoe covers 

It is also important to properly clean up afterward.

## Transmission-based Precautions

Transmission-based precautions are extra steps to follow for illnesses that
are caused by certain germs. Transmission-based precautions are followed in
addition to standard precautions. Some infections require more than one type
of transmission-based precaution.

Follow transmission-based precautions when an illness is first suspected. Stop
following these precautions only when that illness has been treated or ruled
out and the room has been cleaned.

Patients should stay in their rooms as much as possible while these
precautions are in place. They may need to wear a mask when they leave their
rooms.

 **Airborne precautions** may be needed for germs that are so small they can
float in the air and travel long distances.

    * Airborne precautions help keep staff, visitors, and other people from breathing in these germs and getting sick.
    * Germs that warrant airborne precautions include chickenpox, measles, and tuberculosis (TB) bacteria.
    * People who have these germs should be in special rooms where the air is gently sucked out and not allowed to flow into the hallway. This is called a negative pressure room.
    * Anyone who goes into the room should put on a well-fitted respirator mask before they enter. 

**Contact precautions** may be needed for germs that are spread by touching.

    * Contact precautions help keep staff and visitors from spreading the germs after touching a person or an object the person has touched.
    * Some of the germs that contact precautions protect from are _C difficile_ and norovirus. These germs can cause serious infection in the intestines.
    * Anyone entering the room who may touch the person or objects in the room should wear a gown and gloves. 

**Droplet precautions** are used to prevent contact with mucus and other
secretions from the nose and sinuses, throat, airways, and lungs.

    * When a person talks, sneezes, or coughs, droplets that contain germs can travel about 3 feet (90 centimeters).
    * Illnesses that require droplet precautions include influenza (flu), pertussis (whooping cough), and mumps.
    * Anyone who goes into the room should wear a surgical mask. 

## References

Calfee DP. Prevention and control of health care-associated infections. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 282.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Isolation precautions:
summary of recommendations.
www.cdc.gov/infectioncontrol/pdf/guidelines/isolation-guidelines.pdf. Updated
October 31, 2017. Accessed February 21, 2018.

Huskins WC, Sammons JS, Coffin SE. Health care-associated infections. In:
Cherry JD, Harrison GJ, Kaplan SL, Steinbach WJ, Hotez PJ, eds. _Feigin and
Cherry's Textbook of Pediatric Infectious Diseases_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 243.

Maki, DG, Tsigrelis C. Nosocomial infection in the intensive care unit. In:
Parillo JE, Dellinger RP, eds. _Critical Care Medicine: Principles of
Diagnosis and Management in the Adult_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2014:chap 50.

## Review Date 11/20/2017

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Germs and Hygiene
    * Health Facilities
    * Infection Control

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

