Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000474.htm    
                                Description: You have a central line. This is a long tube (catheter) that goes into a vein in your chest, arm, or groin and ends at your heart or in a large vein.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Central line infections - hospitals

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000474.htm

# Central line infections - hospitals

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You have a central line. This is a long tube (catheter) that goes into a vein
in your chest, arm, or groin and ends at your heart or in a large vein.

## What is a Central Line?

Your central line carries nutrients and medicine into your body. It can also
be used to take blood when you need to have blood tests.

Central line infections are very serious. They can make you sick and increase
how long you are in the hospital. Your central line needs special care to
prevent infection.

## Preventing Central Line Infections in the Hospital

You may have a central line if you:

    * Need antibiotics or other medicines for weeks or months
    * Require nutrition because your bowels are not working correctly
    * Need to receive a large amount of blood or fluid quickly
    * Need to have blood samples taken more than once a day
    * Need kidney dialysis 

Anyone who has a central line can get an infection. Your risk is higher if
you:

    * Are in the intensive care unit (ICU)
    * Have a weakened immune system or serious illness
    * Are having a bone marrow transplant or chemotherapy
    * Have the line for a long time
    * Have a central line in your groin 

## What the Hospital Should Do

The hospital staff will use aseptic technique when a central line is put in
your chest or arm. Aseptic technique means keeping everything as sterile
(germ-free) as possible. They will:

    * Wash their hands
    * Put on a mask, gown, cap, and sterile gloves
    * Clean the site where the central line will be placed
    * Use a sterile cover for your body
    * Make sure everything they touch during the procedure is sterile
    * Cover the catheter with gauze or clear plastic tape once it is in place 

Hospital staff should check your central line every day to make sure it is in
the right place and to look for signs of infection. The gauze or tape over the
site should be changed if it is dirty.

## How you can Help During Your Hospital Stay

Make sure not to touch your central line unless you have washed your hands.

Tell your nurse if your central line:

    * Gets dirty
    * Is coming out of your vein
    * Is leaking, or the catheter is cut or cracked 

You can take a shower when your doctor says it is OK to do so. Your nurse will
help you cover your central line when you shower to keep it clean and dry.

## Signs of Infection to Watch for

If you notice any of these signs of infection, tell your doctor or nurse right
away.

    * Redness at the site, or red streaks around the site
    * Swelling or warmth at the site
    * Yellow or green drainage
    * Pain or discomfort
    * Fever 

## Alternative Names

Central line-associated bloodstream infection; CLABSI; Peripherally inserted
central catheter - infection; PICC - infection; Central venous catheter -
infection; CVC - infection; Central venous device - infection; Infection
control - central line infection; Nosocomial infection - central line
infection; Hospital acquired infection - central line infection; Patient
safety - central line infection

## References

Beekman SE, Henderson DK. Infections caused by percutaneous intravascular
devices. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and
Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_.
8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 302.

Bell T, O'Grady NP. Prevention of central line-associated bloodstream
infections. _Infect Dis Clin North Am_. 2017;31(3):551-559. PMID: 28687213
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28687213.

Calfee DP. Prevention and control of health care-associated infections. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 282.

## Review Date 2/18/2018

Updated by: Laura J. Martin, MD, MPH, ABIM Board Certified in Internal
Medicine and Hospice and Palliative Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Infection Control

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

