Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002248.htm    
                                Description: Large for gestational age means that a fetus or infant is larger or more developed than normal for the baby    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Large for gestational age (LGA)

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002248.htm

# Large for gestational age (LGA)

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Large for gestational age means that a fetus or infant is larger or more
developed than normal for the baby's gestational age. Gestational age is the
age of a fetus or baby that starts on the first day of the mother's last
menstrual period.

## Information

Large for gestational age (LGA) refers to a fetus or infant who is larger than
expected for their age and gender. It can also include infants with a birth
weight above the 90th percentile.

The LGA measurement is based on the estimated gestational age of the fetus or
infant. Their actual measurements are compared with normal height, weight,
head size, and development of a fetus or infant of the same age and gender.

Common causes of the condition are:

    * Gestational diabetes
    * Obese pregnant mother
    * Excessive weight gain during pregnancy

A baby that is LGA has a higher risk for birth injury. There is also a risk
for complications of low blood sugar after delivery if the mother has
diabetes.

## References

Balest AL, Riley MM, Bogen DL. Neonatology. In: Zitelli BJ, McIntire SC,
Nowalk AJ, eds. _Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of Pediatric Physical Diagnosis_.
7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 2.

Cooke DW, DiVall SA, Radovick S. Normal and aberrant growth in children. In:
Melmed S, Auchus RJ, Goldfine AB, Koenig RJ, Rosen CJ, eds. _Williams Textbook
of Endocrinology_. 14th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 25.

Suhrie KR, Tabbah SM. High-risk pregnancies. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW,
Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_.
21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 114.

## Review Date 6/30/2019

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Birth Weight](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Birthweight_thumb.jpg)Birth
Weight _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

