Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001500.htm    
                                Description: Intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR) refers to the poor growth of a baby while in the mother    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Intrauterine growth restriction

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001500.htm

# Intrauterine growth restriction

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR) refers to the poor growth of a baby
while in the mother's womb during pregnancy.

## Causes

Many different things can lead to IUGR. An unborn baby may not get enough
oxygen and nutrition from the placenta during pregnancy because of:

    * High altitudes
    * Multiple pregnancy, such as twins or triplets
    * Placenta problems
    * Preeclampsia or eclampsia

Problems at birth (congenital abnormalities)Â or chromosome problems are often
associated with below-normal weight. Infections during pregnancy can also
affect the weight of the developing baby. These include:

    * Cytomegalovirus
    * Rubella
    * Syphilis
    * Toxoplasmosis

Risk factors in the mother that may contribute to IUGR include:

    * Alcohol abuse
    * Smoking
    * Drug addiction
    * Clotting disorders
    * High blood pressure or heart disease
    * Diabetes
    * Kidney disease
    * Poor nutrition
    * Other chronic disease 

If the mother is small, it may be normal for her baby to be small, but this is
not due to IUGR.

Depending on the cause of IUGR, the developing baby may be small all over. Or,
the baby's head may be normal size while the rest of the body is small.

## Symptoms

A pregnant woman may feel that her baby is not as big as it should be. The
measurement from the mother's pubic bone to the top of the uterus will be
smaller than expected for the baby's gestational age. This measurement is
called the uterine fundal height.

## Exams and Tests

IUGR may be suspected if the size of the pregnant woman's uterus is small. The
condition is most often confirmed by ultrasound.

More tests may be needed to screen for infection or genetic problems if IUGR
is suspected.

## Treatment

IUGR increases the risk that the baby will die inside the womb before birth.
If your health care provider thinks you might have IUGR, you will be monitored
closely. This will include regular pregnancy ultrasounds to measure the baby's
growth, movements, blood flow, and fluid around the baby.

Nonstress testing will also be done. This involves listening to the baby's
heart rate for a period of 20 to 30 minutes.

Depending on the results of these tests, your baby may need to be delivered
early.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

After delivery, the newborn's growth and development depends on the severity
and cause of IUGR. Discuss the baby's outlook with your providers.

## Possible Complications

IUGR increases the risk of pregnancy and newborn complications, depending on
the cause. Babies whose growth is restricted often become more stressed during
labor and needÂ C-section delivery.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your provider right away if you are pregnant and notice that the baby
is moving less than usual.

After giving birth, call your provider if your infant or child does not seem
to be growing or developing normally.

## Prevention

Following these guidelines will help prevent IUGR:

    * Do notÂ drink alcohol, smoke, or use recreational drugs.
    * Eat healthy foods.
    * Get regular prenatal care.
    * If you have a chronic medical condition or you take prescribed medicines regularly, see your provider before you get pregnant. This can help reduce risks to your pregnancy and the baby. 

## Alternative Names

Intrauterine growth retardation; IUGR; Pregnancy - IUGR

## Images

    * ![Ultrasound, normal fetus - abdomen measurements](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2252t.jpg)Ultrasound, normal fetus - abdomen measurements
    * ![Ultrasound, normal fetus - arm and legs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2253t.jpg)Ultrasound, normal fetus - arm and legs
    * ![Ultrasound, normal fetus - face](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2255t.jpg)Ultrasound, normal fetus - face
    * ![Ultrasound, normal fetus - femur measurement](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2256t.jpg)Ultrasound, normal fetus - femur measurement
    * ![Ultrasound, normal fetus - foot](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2257t.jpg)Ultrasound, normal fetus - foot
    * ![Ultrasound, normal fetus - head measurements](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2258t.jpg)Ultrasound, normal fetus - head measurements
    * ![Ultrasound, normal fetus - arms and legs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2261t.jpg)Ultrasound, normal fetus - arms and legs
    * ![Ultrasound, normal fetus - profile view](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2263t.jpg)Ultrasound, normal fetus - profile view
    * ![Ultrasound, normal fetus - spine and ribs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2264t.jpg)Ultrasound, normal fetus - spine and ribs
    * ![Ultrasound, normal fetus - ventricles of brain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2266t.jpg)Ultrasound, normal fetus - ventricles of brain

## References

Baschat AA, Galan HL. Intrauterine growth restriction. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl
JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 33.

Carlo WA. The high-risk infant. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW,
Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 97.

## Review Date 9/25/2018

Updated by: John D. Jacobson, MD, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Loma
Linda University School of Medicine, Loma Linda Center for Fertility, Loma
Linda, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Birth Weight](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Birthweight_thumb.jpg)Birth
Weight _Read more_

![Fetal Health and
Development](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FetalHealthandDevelopment_thumb.jpg)Fetal
Health and Development _Read more_

![Health Problems in
Pregnancy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HealthConditionsinPregnancy_thumb.jpg)Health
Problems in Pregnancy _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

