Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007302.htm    
                                Description: Premature babies need to receive good nutrition so they grow at a rate close to that of babies still inside the womb.     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Neonatal weight gain and nutrition

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007302.htm

# Neonatal weight gain and nutrition

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Premature babies need to receive good nutrition so they grow at a rate close
to that of babies still inside the womb.

## Information

Babies born at less than 37 weeks gestation (premature) have different
nutritional needs than babies born at full term (after 38 weeks).

Premature babies will often stay in the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU).
They are watched closely to make sure they are getting the right balance of
fluids and nutrition.

Incubators or special warmers help babies maintain their body temperature.
This reduces the energy the babies have to use to stay warm. Moist air is also
used to help them maintain body temperature and avoid fluid loss.

 **FEEDING ISSUES**

Babies born before 34 to 37 weeks often have problems feeding from a bottle or
a breast. This is because they are not yet mature enough to coordinate
sucking, breathing, and swallowing.

Other illness can also interfere with a newborn's ability to feed by mouth.
Some of these include:

    * Breathing problems
    * Low oxygen levels
    * Circulation problems
    * Blood infection 

Newborn babies who are very small or sick may need to get nutrition and fluids
through a vein (IV).

As they get stronger, they can start to get milk or formula through a tube
that goes into the stomach through the nose or mouth. This is called gavage
feeding. The amount of milk or formula is increased very slowly, especially
for very premature babies. This reduces the risk for an intestinal infection
called necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC). Babies who are fed human milk are less
likely to get NEC.

Babies who are less premature (born after 34 to 37 weeks gestation) often can
be fed from a bottle or the mother's breast. Premature babies may have an
easier time with breastfeeding than bottle feeding at first. This is because
the flow from a bottle is harder for them to control and they can choke or
stop breathing. However, they may also have problems maintaining proper
suction at the breast to get enough milk to meet their needs. For this reason,
even older premature babies may need gavage feedings in some cases.

 **NUTRITIONAL NEEDS**

Preterm babies have a harder time maintaining the proper water balance in
their bodies. These babies can become dehydrated or over-hydrated. This is
especially true for very premature infants.

    * Premature infants may lose more water through the skin or respiratory tract than babies born at full term.
    * The kidneys in a premature baby have not grown enough to control water levels in the body.
    * The NICU team keeps track of how much premature babies urinate (by weighing their diapers) to make sure that their fluid intake and urine output are balanced.
    * Blood tests are also done to monitor electrolyte levels. 

Human milk from the baby's own mother is the best for babies born early and at
very low birth weight.

    * Human milk can protect babies against infections and sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) as well as NEC.
    * Many NICUs will give donor milk from a milk bank to high-risk babies who cannot get enough milk from their own mother.
    * Special preterm formulas can also be used. These formulas have more added calcium and protein to meet the special growth needs of premature babies.
    * Older preterm babies (34 to 36 weeks gestation) may be switched to regular formula or a transitional formula. 

Premature babies have not been in the womb long enough to store up the
nutrients they need and must usually take some supplements.

    * Babies who are given breast milk may need a supplement called human milk fortifier mixed into their feedings. This gives them extra protein, calories, iron, calcium, and vitamins. Babies fed formula may need to take supplements of certain nutrients, including vitamins A, C, and D, and folic acid.
    * Some infants will need to continue taking nutritional supplements after they leave the hospital. For breastfeeding infants, this may mean a bottle or two of fortified breast milk per day as well as iron and vitamin D supplements. Some babies will need more supplementation than others. This may include babies who are not able to take in a sufficient volume of milk through breastfeeding to get the calories they need to grow well.
    * After each feeding, babies should seem satisfied. They should have 8 to 10 feedings and at least 6 to 8 wet diapers each day. Watery or bloody stools or regular vomiting could signal a problem. 

**WEIGHT GAIN**

Weight gain is monitored closely for all babies. Premature babies with slow
growth appear to have more delayed development in research studies.

    * In the NICU, babies are weighed every day.
    * It is normal for babies to lose weight in the first few days of life. Most of this loss is water weight.
    * Most premature infants should start gaining weight within a few days of birth. 

The desired weight gain depends on the baby's size and gestational age. Sicker
babies may need to be given more calories in order to grow at the desired
rate.

    * It might be as little as 5 grams a day for a tiny baby at 24 weeks, or 20 to 30 grams a day for a larger baby at 33 or more weeks.
    * In general, a baby should gain about a quarter of an ounce (30 grams) each day for every pound (1/2 kilogram) they weigh. (This is equal to 15 grams per kilogram per day. It is the average rate at which a fetus grows during the third trimester).

Premature babies do not leave the hospital until they are gaining weight
steadily and in an open crib rather than an incubator. Some hospitals have a
rule on how much the baby must weigh before going home, but this is becoming
less common. In general, babies are at least 4 pounds (2 kilograms) before
they are ready to come out of the incubator.

## Alternative Names

Newborn nutrition; Nutritional needs - premature infants

## References

Ashworth A. Nutrition, food security, and health. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme
JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 57.

Cuttler L, Misra M, Koontz M. Somatic growth and maturation. In: Jameson JL,
De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_.
7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 22.

Lawrence RA, Lawrence RM. Premature infants and breastfeeding. In: Lawrence
RA, Lawrence RM, eds. _Breastfeeding: A Guide for the Medical Profession_. 8th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 15.

Lissauer T, Carroll W. Neonatal medicine. In: Lissauer T, Carroll W, eds.
_Illustrated Textbook of Paediatrics_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2018:chap 11.

Poindexter BB, Martin CR. Nutrient requirements/nutritional support in
premature neonate. In: Martin RJ, Fanaroff AA, Walsh MC, eds. _Fanaroff and
Martin's Neonatal-Perinatal Medicine_. 11th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2020:chap 41.

## Review Date 4/4/2019

Updated by: Liora C. Adler, MD, Pediatric Emergency Medicine, Joe DiMaggio
Children's Hospital, Hollywood, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Birth Weight](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Birthweight_thumb.jpg)Birth
Weight _Read more_

![Infant and Newborn
Nutrition](https://medlineplus.gov/images/InfantandNewbornNutrition_thumb.jpg)Infant
and Newborn Nutrition _Read more_

![Premature
Babies](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PrematureBabies_thumb.jpg)Premature
Babies _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

