Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002225.htm    
                                Description: Gestation is the period of time between conception and birth. During this time, the baby grows and develops inside the mother    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Appropriate for gestational age (AGA)

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002225.htm

# Appropriate for gestational age (AGA)

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Gestation is the period of time between conception and birth. During this
time, the baby grows and develops inside the mother's womb.

If the baby's gestational age findings after birth match the calendar age, the
baby is said to be appropriate for gestational age (AGA).

AGA babies have lower rates of problems and death than babies that are small
or large for their gestational age.

## Information

Gestational age is the common term used during pregnancy to describe how far
along the pregnancy is. It is measured in weeks, from the first day of the
woman's last menstrual cycle to the current date. A normal pregnancy can range
from 38 to 42 weeks.

Gestational age can be determined before or after birth.

    * Before birth, your health care provider will use ultrasound to measure the size of the baby's head, abdomen, and thigh bone. This provides a view on how well the baby is growing in the womb. 
    * After birth, gestational age can be measured by looking at the baby. Weight, length, head circumference, vital signs, reflexes, muscle tone, posture, and the status of the skin and hair are assessed. 

Graphs are available showing the upper and lower normal limits for different
gestational ages, from around 25 weeks of gestation through 42 weeks.

The wait for full-term infants that are born AGA will most often be between
2,500 grams (about 5.5 lbs or 2.5 kg) and 4,000 grams (about 8.75 lbs or 4
kg).

    * Infants weighing less are considered small for gestational age (SGA)
    * Infants weighing more are considered large for gestational age (LGA)

## Alternative Names

Fetal age; Gestation; Development - AGA; Growth - AGA; Neonatal care - AGA;
Newborn care - AGA

## Images

    * ![Gestational ages](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8662t.jpg)Gestational ages

## References

Ball JW, Dains JE, Flynn JA, Solomon BS, Stewart RW. Growth and measurement.
In: Ball JW, Dains JE, Flynn JA, Solomon BS, Stewart RW, eds. _Seidel's Guide
to Physical Examination_. 8th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Mosby; 2015:chap 6.

Carlo WA. The high-risk infant. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW,
Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 97.

Richards DS. Obstetric ultrasound: imaging, dating, growth, and anomaly. In:
Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR, Simpson JL, et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem
Pregnancies_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 9.

## Review Date 10/18/2017

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Birth Weight](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Birthweight_thumb.jpg)Birth
Weight _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

