Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007291.htm    
                                Description: Endoscopic thoracic sympathectomy (ETS) is surgery to treat sweating that is much heavier than normal. This condition is called hyperhidrosis. Usually the surgery is used to treat sweating in the palms    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Endoscopic thoracic sympathectomy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007291.htm

# Endoscopic thoracic sympathectomy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Endoscopic thoracic sympathectomy (ETS) is surgery to treat sweating that is
much heavier than normal. This condition is called hyperhidrosis. Usually the
surgery is used to treat sweating in the palms or face. The sympathetic nerves
control sweating. The surgery cuts these nerves to the part of the body that
sweats too much.

## Description

You will receive general anesthesia before surgery. This will make you asleep
and pain-free.

The surgery is usually done the following way:

    * The surgeon makes 2 or 3 tiny cuts (incisions) under one arm on the side where the excessive sweating occurs.
    * Your lung on this side is deflated (collapsed) so that air does not move in and out of it during surgery. This gives the surgeon more room to work.
    * A tiny camera called an endoscope is inserted through one of the cuts into your chest. Video from the camera shows on a monitor in the operating room. The surgeon views the monitor while doing the surgery.
    * Other small tools are inserted through the other cuts.
    * Using these tools, the surgeon finds the nerves that control sweating in the problem area. These are cut, clipped, or destroyed.
    * Your lung on this side is inflated.
    * The cuts are closed with stitches (sutures).
    * A small drainage tube may be left in your chest for a day or so.

After doing this procedure on one side of your body, the surgeon may do the
same on the other side. The surgery takes about 1 to 3 hours.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

This surgery is usually done in people whose palms sweat much more heavily
than normal. It may also be used to treat extreme sweating of the face. It is
only used when other treatments to reduce sweating have not worked.

## Risks

Risks of anesthesia and surgery in general are:

    * Allergic reactions to medicines
    * Breathing problems
    * Bleeding, blood clots, or infection 

Risks for this procedure are:

    * Blood collection in the chest (hemothorax)
    * Air collection in the chest (pneumothorax)
    * Damage to arteries or nerves
    * Horner syndrome (decreased facial sweating and drooping eyelids)
    * Increased or new sweating
    * Increased sweating in other areas of the body (compensatory sweating)
    * Slowing of the heartbeat 
    * Pneumonia

## Before the Procedure

Tell your surgeon or health care provider:

    * If you are or could be pregnant
    * What medicines, vitamins, herbs, and other supplements you are taking, even ones you bought without a prescription 

During the days before the surgery:

    * You may be asked to stop taking blood thinner drugs. Some of these are aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), and warfarin (Coumadin).
    * Ask your surgeon which medicines you should still take on the day of your surgery.
    * If you smoke, try to stop. Ask your provider for help quitting. Smoking increases the risk for problems such as slow healing. 

On the day of your surgery:

    * Follow instructions about when to stop eating and drinking.
    * Take the medicines your surgeon told you to take with a small sip of water.
    * Arrive at the hospital on time.

## After the Procedure

Most people stay in the hospital one night and go home the next day. You may
have pain for about a week or two. Take pain medicine as your doctor
recommended. You may need acetaminophen (Tylenol) or prescription pain
medicine. DO NOT drive if you are taking narcotic pain medicine.

Follow the surgeon's instructions about taking care of the incisions,
including:

    * Keep the incision areas clean, dry, and covered with dressings (bandages). If your incision is covered with Dermabond (liquid bandage) you may not need any dressings.
    * Wash the areas and change the dressings as instructed.
    * Ask your surgeon when you can shower or bathe.

Slowly resume your regular activities as you are able.

Keep follow-up visits with the surgeon. At these visits, the surgeon will
check the incisions and see if the surgery was successful.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

This surgery may improve the quality of life for most people. It does not work
as well for people who have very heavy armpit sweating. Some people notice
sweating in new places on the body, but this may go away on its own.

## Alternative Names

Sympathectomy - endoscopic thoracic; ETC; Hyperhidrosis - endoscopic thoracic
sympathectomy

## Patient Instructions

    * Surgical wound care - open

## References

International Hyperhidrosis Society website. Endoscopic thoracic
sympathectomy. www.sweathelp.org/hyperhidrosis-treatments/ets-surgery.html.
Accessed April 3, 2019.

Langtry JAA. Hyperhidrosis. In: Lebwohl MG, Heymann WR, Berth-Jones J, Coulson
I, eds. _Treatment of Skin Disease: Comprehensive Therapeutic Strategies_. 5th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 109.

Miller DL, Miller MM. Surgical treatment of hyperhidrosis. In: Sellke FW, del
Nido PJ, Swanson SJ, eds. _Sabiston and Spencer Surgery of the Chest_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 44.

## Review Date 3/12/2019

Updated by: Debra G. Wechter, MD, FACS, general surgery practice specializing
in breast cancer, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Sweat](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Sweat_thumb.jpg)Sweat _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

