Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003219.htm    
                                Description: An abnormal lack of sweat in response to heat may be harmful, because sweating allows heat to be released from the body. The medical term for absent sweating is anhidrosis.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Absence of sweating

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003219.htm

# Absence of sweating

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An abnormal lack of sweat in response to heat may be harmful, because sweating
allows heat to be released from the body. The medical term for absent sweating
is anhidrosis.

## Considerations

Anhidrosis sometimes goes unrecognized until a substantial amount of heat or
exertion fails to cause sweating.

Overall lack of sweating can be life threatening because the body will
overheat. If the lack of sweating happens in a small area only, it is usually
not as dangerous.

## Causes

Cause of anhidrosis may include:

    * Burns
    * Brain tumor
    * Certain genetic syndromes
    * Certain nerve problems (neuropathies)
    * Congenital disorders including ectodermal dysplasia
    * Dehydration
    * Nervous system disorders such as Guillain-Barre syndrome
    * Skin diseases or scarring of the skin that block sweat glands
    * Trauma to sweat glands
    * Use of certain drugs 

## Home Care

If there is a danger of overheating, take the following measures:

    * Take a cool shower or sit in a bathtub with cool water
    * Drink plenty of fluids
    * Stay in a cool environment
    * Move slowly
    * DO NOT do heavy exercise 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have a general lack of sweating or an
abnormal lack of sweating when exposed to heat or strenuous exercise.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will perform a physical exam. In emergencies, the health care
team will perform rapid cooling measures and give you fluids to stabilize you.

You may be asked about your symptoms and medical history.

You may be asked to wrap yourself in an electric blanket or sit in a sweatbox
while the health care team watches your body's reaction. Other tests to cause
and measure sweating may also be done.

A skin biopsy may be done. Genetic testing may be done if appropriate.

Treatment depends on the cause of your lack of sweating. You may be given
medicine to cause sweating.

## Alternative Names

Decreased sweating; Anhidrosis

## References

James WD, Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach MA, Neuhaus IM. Diseases of the skin
appendages. In: James WD, Elston DM, Treat JR, Rosenbach MA, Neuhaus IM, eds.
_Andrews' Diseases of the Skin_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2020:chap 33.

Miller JL. Diseases of the eccrine and apocrine sweat glands. In: Bolognia JL,
Schaffer JV, Cerroni L, eds. _Dermatology_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2018:chap 39.

## Review Date 4/16/2019

Updated by: Michael Lehrer, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve,
MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the
A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Sweat](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Sweat_thumb.jpg)Sweat _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

