Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003216.htm    
                                Description: Clammy skin is cool, moist, and usually pale.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Skin - clammy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003216.htm

# Skin - clammy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Clammy skin is cool, moist, and usually pale.

## Considerations

Clammy skin may be an emergency. Call your health care provider or your local
emergency number, such as 911.

## Causes

Causes of clammy skin include:

    * Anxiety attack
    * Heart attack
    * Heat exhaustion
    * Internal bleeding
    * Low blood oxygen levels
    * Medicine reaction
    * Sepsis (body-wide infection)
    * Severe allergic reaction (anaphylaxis)
    * Severe pain
    * Shock (low blood pressure)

## Home Care

Home care depends on what is causing the clammy skin. Call for medical help if
you are not sure.

If you think the person is in shock, lie him or her down on the back and raise
the legs about 12 inches (30 centimeters). Call your local emergency number
(such as 911) or take the person to the hospital.

If the clammy skin may be due to heat exhaustion and the person is awake and
can swallow:

    * Have the person drink plenty of (non-alcoholic) fluids
    * Move the person to a cool, shaded place

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Seek immediate medical help if the person has any of the following signs or
symptoms:

    * Altered medical status or thinking ability
    * Chest, abdominal, or back pain or discomfort
    * Headache
    * Passage of blood in the stool: black stool, bright red or maroon blood
    * Recurrent or persistent vomiting, especially of blood
    * Possible drug abuse
    * Shortness of breath
    * Signs of shock (such as confusion, lower level of alertness, or weak pulse) 

Always contact your doctor or go to the emergency department if the symptoms
do not go away quickly.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will perform a physical exam and ask questions about the symptoms
and the person's medical history, including:

    * How quickly did the clammy skin develop?
    * Has it ever happened before?
    * Has the person been injured?
    * Is the person in pain?
    * Does the person seem anxious or stressed?
    * Has the person recently been exposed to high temperatures?
    * What other symptoms are present? 

Tests and treatments may include:

    * Airway support, including oxygen, breathing tube through the mouth (intubation), and breathing machine (ventilator)
    * Blood and urine tests
    * Chest x-ray
    * ECG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing)
    * Fluids through a vein (intravenous or IV)
    * Medicines to treat symptoms

The outlook depends on the cause of the clammy skin. Examination and test
results will help determine immediate and long-term outlooks.

## Alternative Names

Sweat - cold; Clammy skin; Cold sweat

## References

Brown A. Critical care. In: Cameron P, Jelinek G, Kelly A-M, Brown A, Little
M, eds. _Textbook of Adult Emergency Medicine_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Churchill Livingstone; 2015:chap 2.

Brown A. Resuscitation. In: Cameron P, Jelinek G, Kelly A-M, Brown A, Little
M, eds. _Textbook of Adult Emergency Medicine_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Churchill Livingstone; 2015:chap 1.

Marik PE. Endocrinology of the stress response during critical illness. In:
Ronco C, Bellomo R, Kellum JA, Ricci Z, eds. _Critical Care Nephrology_. 3rd
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 76.

Puskarich MA, Jones AE. Shock. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M,
eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 6.

## Review Date 1/12/2019

Updated by: Jesse Borke, MD, FACEP, FAAEM, Attending Physician at FDR Medical
Services/Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital, Buffalo, NY. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Sweat](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Sweat_thumb.jpg)Sweat _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

