Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003218.htm    
                                Description: Sweating is the release of liquid from the body    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Sweating

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003218.htm

# Sweating

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Sweating is the release of liquid from the body's sweat glands. This liquid
contains salt. This process is also called perspiration.

Sweating helps your body stay cool. Sweat is commonly found under the arms, on
the feet, and on the palms of the hands.

![Sweating](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200101t.gif)Watch this
video about:Sweating

## Considerations

The amount you sweat depends on how many sweat glands you have.

A person is born with about 2 to 4 million sweat glands, which begin to become
fully active during puberty. Men's sweat glands tend to be more active.

Sweating is controlled by the autonomic nervous system. This is the part of
the nervous system that is not under your control. Sweating is the body's
natural way of regulating temperature.

Things that can make you sweat more include:

    * Hot weather
    * Exercise
    * Situations that make you nervous, angry, embarrassed, or afraid 

Heavy sweating may also be a symptom of menopauseÂ (also called a "hot
flash").

## Causes

Causes may include:

    * Alcohol
    * Caffeine
    * Cancer
    * Complex regional pain syndrome
    * Emotional or stressful situations (anxiety)
    * Essential hyperhidrosis
    * Exercise
    * Fever
    * Infection
    * Low blood sugar (hypoglycemia)
    * Medicines, such as thyroid hormone, morphine, drugs to reduce fever, and medicines to treat mental disorders
    * Menopause
    * Spicy foods (known as "gustatory sweating")
    * Warm temperatures
    * Withdrawal from alcohol, sedatives, or narcotic painkillers 

## Home Care

After sweating a lot, you should:

    * Drink plenty of fluids (water, or fluids containing electrolytes such as sports drinks) to replace sweat. 
    * Lower room temperature a little bit to prevent more sweating. 
    * Wash your face and body if the salt from sweat has dried on your skin. 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your health care provider if sweating occurs with:

    * Chest pain
    * Fever
    * Rapid, pounding heartbeat
    * Shortness of breath
    * Weight loss 

These symptoms may indicate a problem, such as overactive thyroid or an
infection.

Also call your provider if:

    * You sweat a lot or sweating lasts for a long time or cannot be explained.
    * Sweating occurs with or is followed by chest pain or pressure.
    * You lose weight from sweating or often sweat during sleep. 

## Alternative Names

Perspiration

## Images

    * ![Skin layers](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8912t.jpg)Skin layers

## References

Chelimsky T, Chelimsky G. Disorders of the autonomic nervous system. In:
Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in
Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 108.

Cheshire WP. Autonomic disorders and their management. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 418.

McGrath JA. The structure and function of skin. In: Calonje E, Bren T, Lazar
AJ, Billings SD, eds. _McKee's Pathology of the Skin_. 5th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 1.

## Review Date 4/26/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Sweat](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Sweat_thumb.jpg)Sweat _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

