Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001418.htm    
                                Description: Brachial plexopathy is a form of peripheral neuropathy. It occurs when there is damage to the brachial plexus. This is an area on each side of the neck where nerve roots from the spinal cord split into    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Brachial plexopathy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001418.htm

# Brachial plexopathy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Brachial plexopathy is a form of peripheral neuropathy. It occurs when there
is damage to the brachial plexus. This is an area on each side of the neck
where nerve roots from the spinal cord split into each arm's nerves.

Damage to these nerves results in pain, decreased movement, or decreased
sensation in the arm and shoulder.

## Causes

Damage to the brachial plexus is usually from direct injury to the nerve,
stretching injuries (including birth trauma), pressure from tumors in the area
(especially from lung tumors), or damage that results from radiation therapy.

Brachial plexus dysfunction may also be associated with:

    * Birth defects that put pressure on the neck area
    * Exposure to toxins, chemicals, or drugs
    * General anesthesia, used during surgery
    * Inflammatory conditions, such as those due to a virus or immune system problem 

In some cases, no cause can be identified.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

    * Numbness of the shoulder, arm, or hand
    * Shoulder pain
    * Tingling, burning, pain, or abnormal sensations (location depends on the area injured)
    * Weakness of the shoulder, arm, hand, or wrist 

## Exams and Tests

An exam of the arm, hand and wrist can reveal a problem with the nerves of the
brachial plexus. Signs may include:

    * Deformity of the arm or hand
    * Difficulty moving the shoulder, arm, hand, or fingers
    * Diminished arm reflexes
    * Wasting of the muscles
    * Weakness of hand flexing

A detailed history may help determine the cause of the brachial plexopathy.
Age and sex are important, because some brachial plexus problems are more
common in certain groups. For example, young men more often have inflammatory
or post-viral brachial plexus disease called Parsonage-Turner syndrome.

Tests that may be done to diagnose this condition may include:

    * Blood tests
    * Chest x-ray
    * Electromyography (EMG) to check the muscles and nerves that control the muscles
    * MRI of the head, neck, and shoulder
    * Nerve conduction to check how fast electrical signals move through a nerve
    * Nerve biopsy to examine a piece of nerve under the microscope (rarely needed)
    * Ultrasound

## Treatment

Treatment is aimed at correcting the underlying cause and allowing you to use
your hand and arm as much as possible. In some cases, no treatment is needed
and the problem gets better on its own.

Treatment options include any of the following:

    * Medicines to control pain
    * Physical therapy to help maintain muscle strength.
    * Braces, splints, or other devices to help you use your arm
    * Nerve block, in which medicine is injected into the area near the nerves to reduce pain
    * Surgery to repair the nerves or remove something pressing on the nerves 

Occupational therapy or counseling to suggest changes in the workplace may be
needed.

Medical conditions such as diabetes and kidney disease can damage nerves. In
these cases, treatment is also directed at the underlying medical condition.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

A good recovery is possible if the cause is identified and properly treated.
In some cases, there is partial or complete loss of movement or sensation.
Nerve pain may be severe and may last for a long time.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Deformity of the hand or arm, mild to severe, which can lead to contractures
    * Partial or complete arm paralysis
    * Partial or complete loss of sensation in the arm, hand, or fingers
    * Recurrent or unnoticed injury to the hand or arm due to diminished sensation 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you experience pain, numbness, tingling, or
weakness in the shoulder, arm, or hand.

## Alternative Names

Neuropathy - brachial plexus; Brachial plexus dysfunction; Parsonage-Turner
syndrome; Pancoast syndrome

## Images

    * ![Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8679t.jpg)Central nervous system and peripheral nervous system

## References

Chad DA, Bowley MP. Disorders of nerve roots and plexuses. In: Daroff RB,
Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical
Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 106.

Waldman SD. Cervicothoracic interspinous bursitis. In: Waldman SD, ed. _Atlas
of Uncommon Pain Syndromes_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2014:chap 22.

## Review Date 4/30/2018

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, Attending Neurologist and Assistant
Professor of Clinical Neurology, SUNY Stony Brook, School of Medicine, Stony
Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Arm Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ArmInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Arm
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![Brachial Plexus
Injuries](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BrachialPlexusInjuries_thumb.jpg)Brachial
Plexus Injuries _Read more_

![Hand Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HandInjuries_thumb.jpg)Hand Injuries
and Disorders _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

