Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003080.htm    
                                Description: Belching is the act of bringing up air from the stomach.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Belching

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003080.htm

# Belching

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Belching is the act of bringing up air from the stomach.

## Considerations

Belching is a normal process. The purpose of belching is to release air from
the stomach. Every time you swallow, you also swallow air, along with fluid or
food.

The buildup of air in the upper stomach causes the stomach to stretch. This
triggers the muscle at the lower end of the esophagus (the tube that runs from
your mouth to the stomach) to relax. Air is allowed to escape up the esophagus
and out the mouth.

Depending on the cause of the belching, it may occur more often, last longer,
be more forceful.

Symptoms such as nausea, dyspepsia, and heartburn may be relieved by belching.

## Causes

Abnormal belching may be due to:

    * Acid reflux disease (also called gastroesophageal reflux disease or GERD)
    * Digestive system disease
    * Pressure caused by the unconscious swallowing of air (aerophagia)

## Home Care

You can get relief by lying on your side or in a knee-to-chest position until
the gas passes.

Avoid chewing gum, eating quickly, and eating gas-producing foods and
beverages.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Most of the time belching is a minor problem. Call a health care provider if
the belching does not go away, or if you also have other symptoms.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will examine you and ask about your medical history and
symptoms, including:

    * Is this the first time this has occurred?
    * Is there a pattern to your belching? For example, does it happen when you are nervous or after you have been consuming certain foods or drinks?
    * What other symptoms do you have? 

You may need more tests based on what the provider finds during your exam and
your other symptoms.

## Alternative Names

Burping; Eructation; Gas - belching

## Images

    * ![Baby burping position](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19651t.jpg)Baby burping position
    * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system

## References

McQuaid KR. Approach to the patient with gastrointestinal disease. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2020:chap 132.

Richter JE, Friedenberg FK. Gastroesophageal reflux disease. In: Feldman M,
Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and
Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 44.

## Review Date 7/4/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Gas](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Gas_thumb.jpg)Gas _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

