Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000068.htm    
                                Description: A bland diet can be used alongside lifestyle changes to help address the symptoms of ulcers, heartburn, GERD, nausea, and vomiting. You may also need a bland diet after stomach or intestinal surgery.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bland diet

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000068.htm

# Bland diet

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A bland diet can be used alongside lifestyle changes to help address the
symptoms of ulcers, heartburn, GERD, nausea, and vomiting. You may also need a
bland diet after stomach or intestinal surgery.

## Self-care

A bland diet includes foods that are soft, not very spicy, and low in fiber.
If you are on a bland diet, you should not eat spicy, fried, or raw foods. You
should not drink alcohol or drinks with caffeine in them.

Your health care provider will tell you when you can start eating other foods
again. It is still important to eat healthy foods when you add foods back in.
Your provider can refer you to a dietitian or nutritionist to help you plan a
healthy diet.

## Foods you can eat

Foods you can eat on a bland diet include:

    * Milk and other dairy products, low-fat or fat-free only
    * Cooked, canned, or frozen vegetables
    * Fruit juices and vegetable juices (some people, such as those with GERD, may want to avoid citrus and tomato)
    * Breads, crackers, and pasta made with refined white flour
    * Refined, hot cereals, such as Cream of Wheat (farina cereal)
    * Lean, tender meats, such as poultry, whitefish, and shellfish that are steamed, baked, or grilled with no added fat
    * Creamy peanut butter
    * Pudding and custard
    * Eggs
    * Tofu
    * Soup, especially broth
    * Weak tea 

## Foods to Avoid

Some foods you may want to avoid when you are on a bland diet are:

    * Fatty dairy foods, such as whipped cream or high-fat ice cream
    * Strong cheeses, such as bleu or Roquefort cheese
    * Raw vegetables
    * Vegetables that make you gassy, such as broccoli, cabbage, cauliflower, cucumber, green peppers, and corn
    * Dried fruits
    * Whole-grain or bran cereals
    * Whole-grain breads, crackers, or pasta
    * Pickles, sauerkraut, and similar foods
    * Spices, such as hot pepper and garlic
    * Foods with a lot of sugar in them
    * Seeds and nuts
    * Highly seasoned, cured or smoked meats and fish
    * Fried foods
    * Alcoholic beverages and drinks with caffeine in them

You should also avoid medicine that contains aspirin or ibuprofen (Advil,
Motrin).

## Other Diet Tips

When you are on a bland diet:

    * Eat small meals and eat more often during the day.
    * Chew your food slowly and chew it well.
    * Stop smoking cigarettes, if you smoke.
    * DO NOT eat within 2 hours of your bedtime.
    * DO NOT eat foods that are on the "foods to avoid" list, especially if you do not feel well after eating them.
    * Drink fluids slowly. 

## Alternative Names

Heartburn - bland diet; Nausea - bland diet; Peptic ulcer - bland diet

## References

Thompson M, Noel MB. Nutrition and family medicine. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP,
eds. _Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 37.

## Read More

    * Colorectal cancer
    * Crohn disease
    * Ileostomy
    * Intestinal obstruction repair
    * Laparoscopic gallbladder removal
    * Large bowel resection
    * Open gallbladder removal
    * Small bowel resection
    * Total abdominal colectomy
    * Total proctocolectomy and ileal-anal pouch
    * Total proctocolectomy with ileostomy 
    * Ulcerative colitis

## Patient Instructions

    * Anti-reflux surgery - discharge 
    * Clear liquid diet
    * Full liquid diet
    * Ileostomy and your child
    * Ileostomy and your diet
    * Ileostomy - caring for your stoma
    * Ileostomy - discharge
    * Ileostomy - what to ask your doctor 
    * Large bowel resection - discharge
    * Living with your ileostomy
    * Pancreatitis - discharge
    * Small bowel resection - discharge
    * Total colectomy or proctocolectomy - discharge
    * Types of ileostomy

## Review Date 1/13/2018

Updated by: Emily Wax, RD, The Brooklyn Hospital Center, Brooklyn, NY. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * After Surgery
    * Diverticulosis and Diverticulitis
    * GERD
    * Gas
    * Gastroenteritis
    * Heartburn
    * Nausea and Vomiting

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

