Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003124.htm    
                                Description: Gas is air in the intestine that is passed through the rectum. Air that moves from the digestive tract through the mouth is called belching.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Gas - flatulence

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003124.htm

# Gas - flatulence

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Gas is air in the intestine that is passed through the rectum. Air that moves
from the digestive tract through the mouth is called belching.

Gas is also called flatus or flatulence.

## Considerations

Gas is normally formed in the intestines as your body digests food.

Gas can make you feel bloated. It can cause crampy or colicky pains in your
belly.

## Causes

Gas can be caused by certain foods you eat. You may have gas if you:

    * Eat foods that are hard to digest, such as fiber. Sometimes, adding more fiber into your diet can cause temporary gas. Your body may adjust and stop producing gas over time.
    * Eat or drink something your body cannot tolerate. For example, some people have lactose intolerance and cannot eat or drink dairy products. 

Other common causes of gas are:

    * Antibiotics
    * Irritable bowel syndrome
    * Inability to absorb nutrients properly (malabsorption)
    * Inability to digest nutrients properly (maldigestion)
    * Swallowing air while eating 

## Home Care

The following tips may help you prevent gas:

    * Chew your food more thoroughly.
    * Do not eat beans or cabbage.
    * Avoid foods high in poorly digestible carbohydrates. These are called FODMAPs and include fructose (fruit sugar).
    * Avoid lactose.
    * Do not drink carbonated drinks.
    * Do not chew gum.
    * Eat more slowly.
    * Relax while you eat.
    * Walk for 10 to 15 minutes after eating. 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have:

    * Gas and other symptoms such as stomach pain, rectal pain, heartburn, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, constipation, fever, or weight loss
    * Oily, foul-smelling, or bloody stools 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will perform a physical exam and ask questions about your
medical history and symptoms, such as:

    * What foods do you commonly eat?
    * Has your diet changed recently?
    * Have you increased the fiber in your diet?
    * How fast do you eat, chew, and swallow?
    * Would you say that your gas is mild or severe?
    * Does your gas seem to be related to eating milk products or other specific foods?
    * What seems to make your gas better?
    * What medicines do you take?
    * Do you have other symptoms, like abdominal pain, diarrhea, early satiety (premature fullness after meals), bloating, or weight loss?

Tests that may be done include:

    * Abdominal CT scan
    * Abdominal ultrasound
    * Barium enema x-ray
    * Barium swallow x-ray
    * Blood work such as CBC or blood differential
    * Sigmoidoscopy
    * Upper endoscopy (EGD)
    * Breath test 

## Alternative Names

Flatulence; Flatus

## Images

    * ![Intestinal gas](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19608t.jpg)Intestinal gas

## References

Azpiroz F. Intestinal gas. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds.
_Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 17.

Hall JE. Physiology of gastrointestinal disorders. In: Hall JE, ed. _Guyton
and Hall Textbook of Medical Physiology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 67.

McQuaid KR. Approach to the patient with gastrointestinal disease. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 132.

## Review Date 4/9/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Gas](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Gas_thumb.jpg)Gas _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

