Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003123.htm    
                                Description: Abdominal bloating is a condition in which the belly (abdomen) feels full and tight. Your belly may look swollen (distended).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Abdominal bloating

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003123.htm

# Abdominal bloating

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Abdominal bloating is a condition in which the belly (abdomen) feels full and
tight. Your belly may look swollen (distended).

## Causes

Common causes include:

    * Swallowing air
    * Constipation
    * Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD)
    * Irritable bowel syndrome
    * Lactose intolerance and problems digesting other foods
    * Overeating
    * Small bowel bacterial overgrowth
    * Weight gain

You may have bloating if you take the oral diabetes medicine acarbose. Some
other medicines or foods containing lactulose or sorbitol, may cause bloating.

More serious disorders that may cause bloating are:

    * Ascites and tumors
    * Celiac disease
    * Dumping syndrome
    * Ovarian cancer
    * Problems with the pancreas not producing enough digestive enzymes (pancreatic insufficiency)

## Home Care

You may take the following steps:

    * Avoid chewing gum or carbonated drinks. Stay away from foods with high levels of fructose or sorbitol.
    * Avoid foods that can produce gas, such as Brussels sprouts, turnips, cabbage, beans, and lentils.
    * Do not eat too quickly.
    * Stop smoking. 

Get treatment for constipation if you have it. However, fiber supplements such
as psyllium or 100% bran can make your symptoms worse.

You may try simethicone and other medicines you buy at the drugstore to help
with gas. Charcoal caps can also help.

Watch for foods that trigger your bloating so you can start to avoid those
foods. These may include:

    * Milk and other dairy products that contain lactose
    * Certain carbohydrates that contain fructose, known as FODMAPs 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if you have:

    * Abdominal pain
    * Blood in the stools or dark, tarry looking stools
    * Diarrhea
    * Heartburn that is getting worse
    * Vomiting
    * Weight loss

## Alternative Names

Bloating; Meteorism

## References

Azpiroz F. Intestinal gas. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds.
_Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 17.

McQuaid KR. Approach to the patient with gastrointestinal disease. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 132.

## Review Date 4/9/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Gas](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Gas_thumb.jpg)Gas _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

