Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000920.htm    
                                Description: Schizoid personality disorder is a mental condition in which a person has a lifelong pattern of indifference to others and social isolation.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Schizoid personality disorder

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000920.htm

# Schizoid personality disorder

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Schizoid personality disorder is a mental condition in which a person has a
lifelong pattern of indifference to others and social isolation.

## Causes

Cause of this disorder is unknown. It may be related to schizophrenia and
shares many of the same risk factors.

Schizoid personality disorder is not as disabling as schizophrenia. It doesn't
cause the disconnection from reality (in the form of hallucinations or
delusions) that occurs in schizophrenia.

## Symptoms

A person with schizoid personality disorder often:

    * Appears distant and detached
    * Avoids social activities that involve emotional closeness with other people
    * Does not want or enjoy close relationships, even with family members 

## Exams and Tests

This disorder is diagnosed based on a psychological evaluation. The health
care provider will consider how long and how severe the person's symptoms are.

## Treatment

People with this disorder will often not seek treatment. For this reason,
little is known about which treatments work. Talk therapy may not be
effective. This is because people with this disorder may have a hard time
forming a good working relationship with a therapist.

One approach that seems to help is to put fewer demands for emotional
closeness or intimacy on the person.

People with schizoid personality disorder often do well in relationships that
don't focus on emotional closeness. They tend to be better at handling
relationships that focus on:

    * Work
    * Intellectual activities
    * Expectations 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Schizoid personality disorder is a long-term (chronic) illness that usually
does not improve much over time. Social isolation often prevents the person
from asking for help or support.

Limiting expectations of emotional intimacy may help people with this
condition make and keep connections with other people.

## Alternative Names

Personality disorder - schizoid

## References

American Psychiatric Association. Schizoid personality disorder. _Diagnostic
and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders_. 5th ed. Arlington, VA: American
Psychiatric Publishing. 2013:652-655.

Blais MA, Smallwood P, Groves JE, Rivas-Vazquez RA, Hopwood CJ. Personality
and personality disorders. In: Stern TA, Fava M, Wilens TE, Rosenbaum JF, eds.
_Massachusetts General Hospital Comprehensive Clinical Psychiatry_. 2nd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 39.

## Review Date 7/8/2018

Updated by: Ryan James Kimmel, MD, Medical Director of Hospital Psychiatry at
the University of Washington Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Personality
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PersonalityDisorders_thumb.jpg)Personality
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

