Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000940.htm    
                                Description: Avoidant personality disorder is a mental condition in which a person has a lifelong pattern of feeling very:     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Avoidant personality disorder

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000940.htm

# Avoidant personality disorder

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Avoidant personality disorder is a mental condition in which a person has a
lifelong pattern of feeling very:

    * Shy
    * Inadequate
    * Sensitive to rejection

## Causes

Causes of avoidant personality disorder are unknown. Genes or a physical
illness that changed the person's appearance may play a role.

## Symptoms

People with this disorder cannot stop thinking about their own shortcomings.
They form relationships with other people only if they believe they will not
be rejected. Loss and rejection are so painful that these people choose to be
lonely rather than risk trying to connect with others.

A person with avoidant personality disorder may:

    * Be easily hurt when people criticize or disapprove of them
    * Hold back too much in intimate relationships
    * Be reluctant to become involved with people
    * Avoid activities or jobs that involve contact with others
    * Be shy in social situations out of fear of doing something wrong
    * Make potential difficulties seem worse than they are
    * Hold the view they are not good socially, not as good as other people, or unappealing 

## Exams and Tests

Avoidant personality disorder is diagnosed based on a psychological
evaluation. The health care provider will consider how long and how severe the
person's symptoms are.

## Treatment

Talk therapy is considered to be the most effective treatment for this
condition. It helps people with this disorder be less sensitive to rejection.
Antidepressant medicines may be used in addition.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

People with this disorder may develop some ability to relate to others. With
treatment this can be improved.

## Possible Complications

Without treatment, a person with avoidant personality disorder may lead a life
of near or total isolation. They may go on to develop a second mental health
disorder, such as substance use or depression and may be at higher risk for
suicide.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

See your provider or a mental health professional if shyness or fear of
rejection overwhelms your ability to function in life and have relationships.

## Alternative Names

Personality disorder - avoidant

## References

American Psychiatric Association. Avoidant personality disorder. _Diagnostic
and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders: DSM-5_. 5th ed. Arlington, VA:
American Psychiatric Publishing; 2013:672-675.

Blais MA, Smallwood P, Groves JE, Rivas-Vazquez RA, Hopwood CJ. Personality
and personality disorders. In: Stern TA, Fava M, Wilens TE, Rosenbaum JF, eds.
_Massachusetts General Hospital Comprehensive Clinical Psychiatry_. 2nd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 39.

## Review Date 10/7/2018

Updated by: Ryan James Kimmel, MD, Medical Director of Hospital Psychiatry at
the University of Washington Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Personality
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PersonalityDisorders_thumb.jpg)Personality
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

