Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000941.htm    
                                Description: Dependent personality disorder is a mental condition in which people depend too much on others to meet their emotional and physical needs.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Dependent personality disorder

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000941.htm

# Dependent personality disorder

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Dependent personality disorder is a mental condition in which people depend
too much on others to meet their emotional and physical needs.

## Causes

Causes of dependent personality disorder are unknown. The disorder usually
begins in childhood. It is one of the most common personality disorders and is
equally common in men and women.

## Symptoms

People with this disorder DO NOT trust their own ability to make decisions.
They may be very upset by separation and loss. They may go to great lengths,
even suffering abuse, to stay in a relationship.

Symptoms of dependent personality disorder may include:

    * Avoiding being alone
    * Avoiding personal responsibility
    * Becoming easily hurt by criticism or disapproval
    * Becoming overly focused on fears of being abandoned
    * Becoming very passive in relationships
    * Feeling very upset or helpless when relationships end
    * Having difficulty making decisions without support from others
    * Having problems expressing disagreements with others

## Exams and Tests

Dependent personality disorder is diagnosed based on a psychological
evaluation. The health care provider will consider how long and how severe the
person's symptoms are.

## Treatment

Talk therapy is considered to be the most effective treatment. The aim is to
help people with this condition make more independent choices in life.
Medicines may help treat other mental conditions, such as anxiety or
depression, which occur along with this disorder.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Improvements are usually seen only with long-term therapy.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Alcohol or substance use
    * Depression
    * Increased likelihood of physical, emotional, or sexual abuse
    * Thoughts of suicide 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

See your provider or a mental health professional if you or your child has
symptoms of dependent personality disorder.

## Alternative Names

Personality disorder - dependent

## References

American Psychiatric Association. Dependent personality disorder. _Diagnostic
and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders: DSM-5_. 5th ed. Arlington, VA:
American Psychiatric Publishing; 2013:675-678.

Blais MA, Smallwood P, Groves JE, Rivas-Vazquez RA, Hopwood CJ. Personality
and personality disorders. In: Stern TA, Fava M, Wilens TE, Rosenbaum JF, eds.
_Massachusetts General Hospital Comprehensive Clinical Psychiatry_. 2nd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 39.

## Review Date 10/7/2018

Updated by: Ryan James Kimmel, MD, Medical Director of Hospital Psychiatry at
the University of Washington Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Personality
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PersonalityDisorders_thumb.jpg)Personality
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

