Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000934.htm    
                                Description: Narcissistic personality disorder is a mental condition in which a person has:     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Narcissistic personality disorder

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000934.htm

# Narcissistic personality disorder

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Narcissistic personality disorder is a mental condition in which a person has:

    * An excessive sense of self-importance
    * An extreme preoccupation with themselves
    * A lack of empathy for others

## Causes

Cause of this disorder is unknown. Early life experiences, such as insensitive
parenting, are thought to play a role in developing this disorder.

## Symptoms

A person with this disorder may:

    * React to criticism with rage, shame, or humiliation
    * Take advantage of other people to achieve his or her own goals
    * Have excessive feelings of self-importance
    * Exaggerate achievements and talents
    * Be preoccupied with fantasies of success, power, beauty, intelligence, or ideal love
    * Have unreasonable expectations of favorable treatment
    * Need constant attention and admiration
    * Disregard the feelings of others, and have little ability to feel empathy
    * Have obsessive self-interest
    * Pursue mainly selfish goals

## Exams and Tests

Narcissistic personality disorder is diagnosed based on a psychological
evaluation. The health care provider will consider how long and how severe the
person's symptoms are.

## Treatment

Talk therapy may help the person relate to other people in a more positive and
compassionate way.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Outcome of treatment depends on the severity of the disorder and how willing
the person is to change.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Alcohol or other drug use
    * Mood and anxiety disorders
    * Relationship, work, and family problems 

## Alternative Names

Personality disorder - borderline; Narcissism

## References

American Psychiatric Association. Narcissistic personality disorder.
_Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders_. 5th ed. Arlington,
VA: American Psychiatric Publishing. 2013;669-672.

Blais MA, Smallwood P, Groves JE, Rivas-Vazquez RA, Hopwood CJ. Personality
and personality disorders. In: Stern TA, Fava M, Wilens TE, Rosenbaum JF, eds.
_Massachusetts General Hospital Comprehensive Clinical Psychiatry_. 2nd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 39.

## Review Date 7/8/2018

Updated by: Ryan James Kimmel, MD, Medical Director of Hospital Psychiatry at
the University of Washington Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Personality
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PersonalityDisorders_thumb.jpg)Personality
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

