Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000935.htm    
                                Description: Borderline personality disorder (BPD) is a mental condition in which a person has long-term patterns of unstable or turbulent emotions. These inner experiences often result in impulsive actions and chaotic    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Borderline personality disorder

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000935.htm

# Borderline personality disorder

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Borderline personality disorder (BPD) is a mental condition in which a person
has long-term patterns of unstable or turbulent emotions. These inner
experiences often result in impulsive actions and chaotic relationships with
other people.

## Causes

Cause of BPD is unknown. Genetic, family, and social factors are thought to
play roles.

Risk factors include:

    * Either real or fear of abandonment in childhood or adolescence
    * Disrupted family life
    * Poor communication in the family
    * Sexual, physical, or emotional abuse 

BPD occurs equally in men and women, though women tend to seek treatment more
often than men. Symptoms may get better after middle age.

## Symptoms

People with BPD lack confidence in how they view themselves and how they are
judged by others. As a result, their interests and values can change rapidly.
They also tend to view things in terms of extremes, such as either all good or
all bad. Their views of other people can change quickly. A person who is
looked up to one day may be looked down on the next day. These suddenly
shifting feelings often lead to intense and unstable relationships.

Other symptoms of BPD include:

    * Intense fear of being abandoned
    * Can't tolerate being alone
    * Feelings of emptiness and boredom
    * Displays of inappropriate anger
    * Impulsiveness, such as with substance use or sexual relationships
    * Self-injury, such as wrist cutting or overdosing 

## Exams and Tests

BPD is diagnosed based on a psychological evaluation. The health care provider
will consider how long and how severe the person's symptoms are.

## Treatment

Individual talk therapy may successfully treat BPD. Group therapy can
sometimes be helpful.

Medicines have less of a role in treating BPD. In some cases, they can improve
mood swings and treat depression or other disorders that may occur with this
disorder.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Outlook of treatment depends on how severe the condition is and whether the
person is willing to accept help. With long-term talk therapy, the person
often gradually improves.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Depression
    * Drug use
    * Problems with work, family, and social relationships
    * Suicide attempts and actual suicide 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

See your provider if you or someone you know has symptoms of borderline
personality disorder. It is especially important to seek help right away if
you or someone you know is having thoughts of suicide.

## Alternative Names

Personality disorder - borderline

## References

American Psychiatric Association. Borderline personality disorder. _Diagnostic
and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders_. 5th ed. Arlington, VA: American
Psychiatric Publishing. 2013:663-666.

Blais MA, Smallwood P, Groves JE, Rivas-Vazquez RA, Hopwood CJ. Personality
and personality disorders. In: Stern TA, Fava M, Wilens TE, Rosenbaum JF, eds.
_Massachusetts General Hospital Comprehensive Clinical Psychiatry_. 2nd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 39.

## Review Date 7/8/2018

Updated by: Ryan James Kimmel, MD, Medical Director of Hospital Psychiatry at
the University of Washington Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Personality
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PersonalityDisorders_thumb.jpg)Personality
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

