Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001525.htm    
                                Description: Schizotypal personality disorder (SPD) is a mental condition in which a person has trouble with relationships and disturbances in thought patterns, appearance, and behavior.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Schizotypal personality disorder

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001525.htm

# Schizotypal personality disorder

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Schizotypal personality disorder (SPD) is a mental condition in which a person
has trouble with relationships and disturbances in thought patterns,
appearance, and behavior.

## Causes

The exact cause of SPD is unknown. Many factors may be involved:

    * Genetic -- SPD seems to be more common among relatives. Studies have found that some gene defects are found more often in people with SPD.
    * Psychologic -- A person's personality, ability to deal with stress, and handle relationships with others may contribute to SPD.
    * Environmental -- Emotional trauma as a child and chronic stress may also play roles in developing SPD.

## Symptoms

SPD should not be confused with schizophrenia. People with SPD can have odd
beliefs and behaviors, but unlike people with schizophrenia, they are not
disconnected from reality and usually DO NOT hallucinate. They also DO NOT
have delusions.

People with SPD may be very disturbed. They may also have unusual
preoccupations and fears, such as fear of being monitored by government
agencies.

More commonly, people with this disorder behave oddly and have unusual beliefs
(such as aliens). They cling to these beliefs so strongly that they have
difficulty forming and keeping close relationships.

People with SPD may also have depression. A second personality disorder, such
as borderline personality disorder, is also common. Mood, anxiety, and
substance use disorders are also common among people with SPD.

Common signs of SPD include:

    * Discomfort in social situations
    * Inappropriate displays of feelings
    * No close friends
    * Odd behavior or appearance
    * Odd beliefs, fantasies, or preoccupations
    * Odd speech

## Exams and Tests

SPD is diagnosed based on a psychological evaluation. The health care provider
will consider how long and how severe the person's symptoms are.

## Treatment

Talk therapy is an important part of treatment. Social skills training can
help some people cope with social situations. Medicines may also be a helpful
addition if mood or anxiety disorders are also present.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

SPD is usually a long-term (chronic) illness. Outcome of treatment varies
based on the severity of the disorder.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Poor social skills
    * Lack of interpersonal relationships 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

See your provider or a mental health professional if you or someone you know
has symptoms of SPD.

## Prevention

There is no known prevention. Awareness of risk, such as a family history of
schizophrenia, may allow early diagnosis.

## Alternative Names

Personality disorder - schizotypal

## References

American Psychiatric Association website. Schizotypal personality disorder.
_Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders: DSM-5_. 5th ed.
Arlington, VA: American Psychiatric Publishing. 2013;655-659.

Blais MA, Smallwood P, Groves JE, Rivas-Vazquez RA, Hopwood CJ. Personality
and personality disorders. In: Stern TA, Fava M, Wilens TE, Rosenbaum JF, eds.
_Massachusetts General Hospital Comprehensive Clinical Psychiatry_. 2nd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 39.

Rosell DR, Futterman SE, McMaster A, Siever LJ. Schizotypal personality
disorder: a current review. _Curr Psychiatry Rep_. 2014;16(7):452. PMID:
24828284 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24828284.

## Review Date 10/7/2018

Updated by: Ryan James Kimmel, MD, Medical Director of Hospital Psychiatry at
the University of Washington Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Personality
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PersonalityDisorders_thumb.jpg)Personality
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

