Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000939.htm    
                                Description: Personality disorders are a group of mental conditions in which a person has a long-term pattern of behaviors, emotions, and thoughts that is very different from his or her culture    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Personality disorders

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000939.htm

# Personality disorders

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Personality disorders are a group of mental conditions in which a person has a
long-term pattern of behaviors, emotions, and thoughts that is very different
from his or her culture's expectations. These behaviors interfere with the
person's ability to function in relationships, work, or other settings.

## Causes

Causes of personality disorders are unknown. Genetic and environmental factors
are thought to play a role.

Mental health professionals categorize these disorders into the following
types:

    * Antisocial personality disorder
    * Avoidant personality disorder
    * Borderline personality disorder
    * Dependent personality disorder
    * Histrionic personality disorder
    * Narcissistic personality disorder
    * Obsessive-compulsive personality disorder
    * Paranoid personality disorder
    * Schizoid personality disorder
    * Schizotypal personality disorder

## Symptoms

Symptoms vary widely, depending on the type of personality disorder.

In general, personality disorders involve feelings, thoughts, and behaviors
that don't adapt to a wide range of settings.

These patterns usually begin in the teens and may lead to problems in social
and work situations.

The severity of these conditions ranges from mild to severe.

## Exams and Tests

Personality disorders are diagnosed based on a psychological evaluation. The
health care provider will consider how long and how severe the person's
symptoms are.

## Treatment

At first, people with these disorders usually don't seek treatment on their
own. This is because they feel the disorder is part of themselves. They tend
to seek help once their behavior has caused severe problems in their
relationships or work. They may also seek help when they are struggling with
another mental health problem, such as a mood or substance use disorder.

Although personality disorders take time to treat, certain forms of talk
therapy are helpful. In some cases, medicines are a useful addition.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Outlook varies. Some personality disorders improve greatly during middle age
without any treatment. Others only improve slowly, even with treatment.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Problems with relationships
    * Problems with school or work
    * Other mental health disorders
    * Suicide attempts
    * Drug and alcohol use
    * Mood and anxiety disorders

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

See your health care provider or mental health professional if you or someone
you know has symptoms of a personality disorder.

## References

American Psychiatric Association. Personality disorders. _Diagnostic and
Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders_. 5th ed. Arlington, VA: American
Psychiatric Publishing. 2013:645-685.

Blais MA, Smallwood P, Groves JE, Rivas-Vazquez RA, Hopwood CJ. Personality
and personality disorders. In: Stern TA, Fava M, Wilens TE, Rosenbaum JF, eds.
_Massachusetts General Hospital Comprehensive Clinical Psychiatry_. 2nd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 39.

## Review Date 7/8/2018

Updated by: Ryan James Kimmel, MD, Medical Director of Hospital Psychiatry at
the University of Washington Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Personality
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PersonalityDisorders_thumb.jpg)Personality
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

