Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000942.htm    
                                Description: Obsessive-compulsive personality disorder (OCPD) is a mental condition in which a person is preoccupied with:     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Obsessive-compulsive personality disorder

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000942.htm

# Obsessive-compulsive personality disorder

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Obsessive-compulsive personality disorder (OCPD) is a mental condition in
which a person is preoccupied with:

    * Rules
    * Orderliness
    * Control

## Causes

OCPD tends to occur in families, so genes may be involved. A person's
childhood and environment may also play roles.

This disorder can affect both men and women. It occurs most often in men.

## Symptoms

OCPD has some of the same symptoms as obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD).
People with OCD have unwanted thoughts, while people with OCPD believe that
their thoughts are correct. In addition, OCD often begins in childhood while
OCPD usually starts in the teen years or early 20s.

People with either OCPD or OCD are high achievers and feel a sense of urgency
about their actions. They may become very upset if other people interfere with
their rigid routines. They may not be able to express their anger directly.
People with OCPD have feelings that they consider more appropriate, like
anxiety or frustration.

A person with OCPD has symptoms of perfectionism that usually begin by early
adulthood. This perfectionism may interfere with the person's ability to
complete tasks because their standards are so rigid. They may withdraw
emotionally when they are not able to control a situation. This can interfere
with their ability to solve problems and form close relationships.

Other signs of OCPD include:

    * Over-devotion to work
    * Not being able to throw things away, even when the objects have no value
    * Lack of flexibility
    * Lack of generosity
    * Not wanting to allow other people to do things
    * Not willing to show affection
    * Preoccupation with details, rules, and lists 

## Exams and Tests

OCPD is diagnosed based on a psychological evaluation. The health care
provider will consider how long and how severe the person's symptoms are.

## Treatment

Medicines may help reduce anxiety and depression from OCPD. Talk therapy is
thought to be the most effective treatment for OCPD. In some cases, medicines
combined with talk therapy is more effective than either treatment alone.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Outlook for OCPD tends to be better than that for other personality disorders.
The rigidness and control of OCPD may prevent many of the complications, such
as substance use, which are common in other personality disorders.

The social isolation and difficulty handling anger that are common with OCPD
may lead to depression and anxiety later in life.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Anxiety
    * Depression
    * Difficulty moving forward in career situations
    * Relationship difficulties 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

See your provider or mental health professional if you or someone you know has
symptoms of OCPD.

## Alternative Names

Personality disorder - obsessive-compulsive; OCPD

## References

American Psychiatric Association. Obsessive-compulsive personality disorder.
_Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders: DSM-5_. 5th ed.
Arlington, VA: American Psychiatric Publishing; 2013:678-682.

Blais MA, Smallwood P, Groves JE, Rivas-Vazquez RA, Hopwood CJ. Personality
and personality disorders. In: Stern TA, Fava M, Wilens TE, Rosenbaum JF, eds.
_Massachusetts General Hospital Comprehensive Clinical Psychiatry_. 2nd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 39.

Gordon OM, Salkovskis PM, Oldfield VB, Carter N. The association between
obsessive compulsive disorder and obsessive compulsive personality disorder:
prevalence and clinical presentation. _Br J Clin Psychol_. 2013;52(3):300-315.
PMID: 23865406 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23865406.

## Review Date 10/7/2018

Updated by: Ryan James Kimmel, MD, Medical Director of Hospital Psychiatry at
the University of Washington Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Personality
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PersonalityDisorders_thumb.jpg)Personality
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

