Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000938.htm    
                                Description: Paranoid personality disorder (PPD) is a mental condition in which a person has a long-term pattern of distrust and suspicion of others. The person does not have a full-blown psychotic disorder, such as    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Paranoid personality disorder

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000938.htm

# Paranoid personality disorder

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Paranoid personality disorder (PPD) is a mental condition in which a person
has a long-term pattern of distrust and suspicion of others. The person does
not have a full-blown psychotic disorder, such as schizophrenia.

## Causes

Causes of PPD are unknown. PPD seems to be more common in families with
psychotic disorders, such as schizophrenia and delusional disorder. This
suggests genes may be involved. Other factors may play a role as well.

PPD seems to be more common in men.

## Symptoms

People with PPD are very suspicious of other people. As a result, they
severely limit their social lives. They often feel that they are in danger and
look for evidence to support their suspicions. They have trouble seeing that
their distrust is out of proportion to their environment.

Common symptoms include:

    * Concern that other people have hidden motives
    * Thinking that they will be exploited (used) or harmed by others
    * Not able to work together with others
    * Social isolation
    * Detachment
    * Hostility

## Exams and Tests

PPD is diagnosed based on a psychological evaluation. The health care provider
will consider how long and how severe the person's symptoms are.

## Treatment

Treatment is difficult because people with PPD are often very suspicious of
doctors. If treatment is accepted, talk therapy and medicines can often be
effective.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Outlook usually depends on whether the person is willing to accept help. Talk
therapy and medicines can sometimes reduce paranoia and limit its impact on
the person's daily functioning.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Extreme social isolation
    * Problems with school or work 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

See a health care provider or mental health professional if suspicions are
interfering with your relationships or work.

## Alternative Names

Personality disorder - paranoid; PPD

## References

American Psychiatric Association. Paranoid personality disorder. _Diagnostic
and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders_. 5th ed. Arlington, VA: American
Psychiatric Publishing. 2013:649-652.

Blais MA, Smallwood P, Groves JE, Rivas-Vazquez RA, Hopwood CJ. Personality
and personality disorders. In: Stern TA, Fava M, Wilens TE, Rosenbaum JF, eds.
_Massachusetts General Hospital Comprehensive Clinical Psychiatry_. 2nd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 39.

## Review Date 7/8/2018

Updated by: Ryan James Kimmel, MD, Medical Director of Hospital Psychiatry at
the University of Washington Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Personality
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PersonalityDisorders_thumb.jpg)Personality
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

