Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001531.htm    
                                Description: Histrionic personality disorder is a mental condition in which people act in a very emotional and dramatic way that draws attention to themselves.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Histrionic personality disorder

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001531.htm

# Histrionic personality disorder

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Histrionic personality disorder is a mental condition in which people act in a
very emotional and dramatic way that draws attention to themselves.

## Causes

Causes of histrionic personality disorder are unknown. Genes and early
childhood events may be responsible. It is diagnosed more often in women than
in men. Doctors believe that more men may have the disorder than are
diagnosed.

Histrionic personality disorder usually begins by late teens or early 20s.

## Symptoms

People with this disorder are usually able to function at a high level and can
be successful socially and at work.

Symptoms include:

    * Acting or looking overly seductive
    * Being easily influenced by other people
    * Being overly concerned with their looks
    * Being overly dramatic and emotional
    * Being overly sensitive to criticism or disapproval
    * Believing that relationships are more intimate than they actually are
    * Blaming failure or disappointment on others
    * Constantly seeking reassurance or approval
    * Having a low tolerance for frustration or delayed gratification
    * Needing to be the center of attention (self-centeredness)
    * Quickly changing emotions, which may seem shallow to others

## Exams and Tests

Histrionic personality disorder is diagnosed based on a psychological
evaluation. The health care provider will consider how long and how severe the
person's symptoms are.

The provider can diagnose histrionic personality disorder by looking at the
person's:

    * Behavior
    * Overall appearance
    * Psychological evaluation 

## Treatment

People with this condition often seek treatment when they have depression or
anxiety from failed romantic relationships or other conflicts with people.
Medicine may help the symptoms. Talk therapy is the best treatment for the
condition itself.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Histrionic personality disorder can improve with talk therapy and sometimes
medicines. Left untreated, it can cause problems in people's personal lives
and prevent them from doing their best at work.

## Possible Complications

Histrionic personality disorder may affect a person's social or romantic
relationships. The person may be unable to cope with losses or failures. The
person may change jobs often because of boredom and not being able to deal
with frustration. They may crave new things and excitement, which leads to
risky situations. All of these factors may lead to a higher chance of
depressionÂ or suicidal thoughts.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

See your provider or mental health professional if you or someone you know has
symptoms of histrionic personality disorder.

## Alternative Names

Personality disorder - histrionic; Attention seeking - histrionic personality
disorder

## References

American Psychiatric Association website. Histrionic personality disorder.
_Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders: DSM-5_. 5th ed.
Arlington, VA: American Psychiatric Publishing. 2013;667-669.

Blais MA, Smallwood P, Groves JE, Rivas-Vazquez RA, Hopwood CJ. Personality
and personality disorders. In: Stern TA, Fava M, Wilens TE, Rosenbaum JF, eds.
_Massachusetts General Hospital Comprehensive Clinical Psychiatry_. 2nd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 39.

## Review Date 10/7/2018

Updated by: Ryan James Kimmel, MD, Medical Director of Hospital Psychiatry at
the University of Washington Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Personality
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PersonalityDisorders_thumb.jpg)Personality
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

