Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000921.htm    
                                Description: Antisocial personality disorder is a mental condition in which a person has a long-term pattern of manipulating, exploiting, or violating the rights of others without any remorse. This behavior may cause    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Antisocial personality disorder

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000921.htm

# Antisocial personality disorder

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Antisocial personality disorder is a mental condition in which a person has a
long-term pattern of manipulating, exploiting, or violating the rights of
others without any remorse. This behavior may cause problems in relationships
or at work and is often criminal.

## Causes

Cause of this disorder is unknown. A person's genes and other factors, such as
child abuse, may contribute to developing this condition. People with an
antisocial or alcoholic parent are at increased risk. Far more men than women
are affected. The condition is common among people who are in prison.

Setting fires and animal cruelty during childhood are often seen in the
development of antisocial personality.

Some doctors believe that psychopathic personality (psychopathy) is the same
disorder. Others believe that psychopathic personality is a similar, but a
more severe disorder.

## Symptoms

A person with antisocial personality disorder may:

    * Be able to act witty and charming
    * Be good at flattery and manipulating other people's emotions
    * Break the law repeatedly
    * Disregard the safety of self and others
    * Have problems with substance abuse
    * Lie, steal, and fight often
    * Not show guilt or remorse
    * Often be angry or arrogant

## Exams and Tests

Antisocial personality disorder is diagnosed based on a psychological
evaluation. The health care provider will consider how long and how severe the
person's symptoms are. To be diagnosed with antisocial personality disorder, a
person must have had emotional and behavioral problems (conduct disorder)
during childhood.

## Treatment

Antisocial personality disorder is one of the hardest personality disorders to
treat. People with this condition usually don't seek treatment on their own.
They may only start therapy when required to by a court.

Behavioral treatments, such as those that reward appropriate behavior and have
negative consequences for illegal behavior, may work in some people. Talk
therapy may also help.

People with an antisocial personality who have other disorders, such as a mood
or substance use disorder, are often treated for those problems as well.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Symptoms tend to peak during the late teenage years and early 20s. They
sometimes improve on their own by the time a person is in their 40s.

## Possible Complications

Complications may include imprisonment, drug use, alcohol use, violence, and
suicide.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

See a provider or a mental health professional if you or someone you know has
symptoms of antisocial personality disorder.

## Alternative Names

Sociopathic personality; Sociopathy; Personality disorder - antisocial

## References

American Psychiatric Association. Antisocial personality disorder. _Diagnostic
and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders_. 5th ed. Arlington, VA: American
Psychiatric Publishing. 2013;659-663.

Blais MA, Smallwood P, Groves JE, Rivas-Vazquez RA, Hopwood CJ. Personality
and personality disorders. In: Stern TA, Fava M, Wilens TE, Rosenbaum JF, eds.
_Massachusetts General Hospital Comprehensive Clinical Psychiatry_. 2nd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 39.

## Review Date 7/8/2018

Updated by: Ryan James Kimmel, MD, Medical Director of Hospital Psychiatry at
the University of Washington Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Personality
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PersonalityDisorders_thumb.jpg)Personality
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

