Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002077.htm    
                                Description: The air pressure outside of your body changes as altitude changes. This creates a difference in pressure on the two sides of the eardrum. You may feel pressure and blockage in the ears as a result.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Ear - blocked at high altitudes

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002077.htm

# Ear - blocked at high altitudes

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The air pressure outside of your body changes as altitude changes. This
creates a difference in pressure on the two sides of the eardrum. You may feel
pressure and blockage in the ears as a result.

## Information

The eustachian tube is a connection between the middle ear (the space deep to
the eardrum) and the back of the nose and upper throat.

Swallowing or yawning opens the eustachian tube and allows air to flow into or
out of the middle ear. This helps equalize pressure on either side of the
eardrum.

Doing these things can unclog blocked ears when you are going up or coming
down from high altitudes. Chewing gum the entire time you are changing
altitudes helps by causing you to swallow often. This may prevent your ears
from getting blocked.

People who always have blocked ears when flying may want to take a
decongestant about an hour before the flight leaves.

If your ears are blocked, you can try breathing in, then gently breathing out
while holding your nostrils and mouth closed. Use care when doing this. If you
breathe out too forcefully, you can cause ear infections by forcing bacteria
into your ear canals. You can also create a hole (perforation) in your eardrum
if you blow too hard.

## Alternative Names

High altitudes and blocked ears; Flying and blocked ears; Eustachian tube
dysfunction - high altitude

## Images

    * ![Ear anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23221t.jpg)Ear anatomy
    * ![Medical findings based on ear anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1126t.jpg)Medical findings based on ear anatomy
    * ![External and internal ear](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8762t.jpg)External and internal ear

## References

Byyny RL, Shockley LW. Scuba diving and dysbarism. In: Walls RM, Hockberger
RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 135.

O'Reilly RC, Levi J. Anatomy and physiology of the Eustachian tube. In: Flint
PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head & Neck
Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 131.

## Review Date 5/17/2018

Updated by: Josef Shargorodsky, MD, MPH, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Barotrauma](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Barotrauma_thumb.jpg)Barotrauma
_Read more_

![Traveler's
Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TravelersHealth_thumb.jpg)Traveler's
Health _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

