Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000780.htm    
                                Description: Dry socket is a complication of having a tooth pulled (tooth extraction). The socket is the hole in the bone where the tooth used to be. After a tooth is removed, a blood clot forms in the socket. This    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Dry socket

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000780.htm

# Dry socket

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Dry socket is a complication of having a tooth pulled (tooth extraction). The
socket is the hole in the bone where the tooth used to be. After a tooth is
removed, a blood clot forms in the socket. This protects the bone and nerves
underneath as it heals.

Dry socket occurs when the clot is lost or does not form well. The bone and
nerves are exposed to the air. This causes pain and delays healing.

## Risk Factors

You may be more at risk for dry socket if you:

    * Have poor oral health
    * Have a difficult tooth extraction
    * Use birth control pills, which may interfere with healing
    * Smoke or use tobacco, which slows healing
    * Do not take proper care of your mouth after having a tooth pulled
    * Have had dry socket in the past
    * Drink from a straw after the tooth is pulled, which can dislodge the clot
    * Rinse and spit a lot after the tooth is pulled, which can dislodge the clot 

## Symptoms

Symptoms of dry socket are:

    * Severe pain 1 to 3 days after the tooth is pulled
    * Pain that radiates from the socket to your ear, eye, temple, or neck on the same side that your tooth was pulled
    * An empty socket with a missing blood clot 
    * Bad taste in your mouth 
    * Bad breath or a terrible smell coming from your mouth
    * Slight fever

## Treatment

Your dentist will treat the dry socket by:

    * Cleaning out the socket to flush out food or other materials
    * Filling the socket with a medicated dressing or paste
    * Having you come in often to have the dressing changed

Your dentist may also decide to:

    * Start you on antibiotics
    * Have you rinse with salt water or special mouthwash
    * Give you a prescription for pain medicine or irrigation solution

## Self-Care for dry Socket

To care for the dry socket at home:

    * Take pain medicine and antibiotics as directed
    * Apply a cold pack to the outside of your jaw
    * Carefully rinse the dry socket as directed by your dentist
    * Take antibiotics as instructed
    * Do not smoke or drink alcohol 

## How to Prevent dry Socket

To prevent dry socket, follow your dentist's instructions for mouth care after
you have a tooth pulled.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your dentist if you think you have:

    * Symptoms of dry socket
    * Increased pain or pain that does not respond to pain relievers
    * Worse breath or taste in your mouth (could be a sign of infection)

## Alternative Names

Alveolar osteitis; Alveolitis; Septic socket

## References

American Dental Association. Dry socket. www.mouthhealthy.org/en/az-
topics/d/dry-socket. Accessed November 20, 2018.

Hupp JR. Prevention and management of extraction complications. In: Hupp JR,
Ellis E, Tucker MR, eds. _Contemporary Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery_. 6th
ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Mosby; 2014:chap 11.

## Review Date 10/14/2018

Updated by: Richard Port, DDS, MS, Diplomate: American Boards of Orthodontics
and Pediatric Dentistry, Private Practice, Orthodontics, Vernon Hills and
Gurnee, IL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Tooth Disorders

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

