Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003065.htm    
                                Description: Abnormal tooth color is any color other than white to yellowish-white.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Tooth - abnormal colors

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003065.htm

# Tooth - abnormal colors

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Abnormal tooth color is any color other than white to yellowish-white.

## Considerations

Many things can cause teeth to become discolored. The change in color may
affect the entire tooth, or it may appear as spots or lines in the tooth
enamel. Enamel is the hard outer layer of the tooth. The discoloration can be
either temporary or permanent. It may also appear on many teeth or only one
area.

Your genes affect your tooth color. Other things that can affect tooth color
include:

    * Diseases that are present at birth
    * Environmental factors
    * Infections 

Inherited diseases may affect the thickness of enamel or the calcium or
protein content of the enamel. This can cause color changes. Metabolic
diseases may cause changes in tooth color and shape.

Drugs and medicines taken by a mother during pregnancy or by a child during
the time of tooth development can cause changes in the color and hardness of
the enamel.

## Causes

Some things that can cause teeth to become discolored are:

    * Antibiotic tetracycline use before age 8
    * Eating or drinking items that temporarily stain the teeth, such as tea, coffee, or iron containing liquids
    * Genetic defects that affect the tooth enamel, such as dentinogenesis and amelogenesis
    * High fever at an age when teeth are forming
    * Poor oral care
    * Tooth nerve damage
    * Porphyria (a group of disorders caused by a buildup of natural chemicals in the body)
    * Severe neonatal jaundice
    * Too much fluoride from environmental sources (naturally high water fluoride levels) or ingestion of fluoride rinses, toothpaste, and high amount of fluoride supplements 

## Home Care

Good oral hygiene will help if teeth are stained from a food or fluid, or if
they are discolored due to poor cleaning.

Talk to your dentist about abnormal tooth color. However, if the color seems
to be related to a medical condition, you should talk to your regular health
care provider as well.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * Your teeth are an abnormal color without an apparent cause
    * Abnormal tooth color lasts, even after cleaning your teeth well

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your dentist will examine your teeth and ask about your symptoms. Questions
may involve:

    * When the abnormal coloration began
    * Foods you have been eating
    * Medicines you are taking
    * Personal and family health history
    * Exposure to fluoride
    * Oral care habits
    * Other symptoms you may have 

Diet-related discoloration and discoloration that is only on the surface may
be eliminated with proper oral hygiene or teeth-whitening systems. More severe
discoloration may need to be removed using fillings, veneers, or crowns.

Testing may not be necessary in many cases. However, if your provider suspects
the discoloration may be related to a medical condition, testing may be needed
to confirm the diagnosis.

Dental x-rays may be taken.

## Alternative Names

Discolored teeth; Tooth discoloration; Tooth pigmentation; Tooth staining

## References

Neville BW, Damm DD, Allen CM, Chi AC. Abnormalities of teeth. In: Neville BW,
Damm DD, Allen CM, Chi AC, eds. _Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology_. 4th ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2016:chap 2.

Tinanoff N. Development and developmental anomalies of the teeth. In: Kliegman
RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_.
20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 307.

## Review Date 2/5/2018

Updated by: Ilona Fotek, DMD, MS, Dental Healing Arts, Jupiter, FL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Tooth
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ToothDisorders_thumb.jpg)Tooth
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

