Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000058.htm    
                                Description: The medical term for a knocked out tooth is &quot;avulsed&quot; tooth.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Broken or knocked out tooth

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000058.htm

# Broken or knocked out tooth

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

The medical term for a knocked out tooth is "avulsed" tooth.

## Considerations

A permanent (adult) tooth that is knocked out can sometimes be put back in
place (replanted). In most cases, only permanent teeth are replanted into the
mouth. Baby teeth are not replanted.

## Causes

Tooth accidents are commonly caused by:

    * Accidental falls
    * Sports-related trauma
    * Fighting
    * Car accidents
    * Biting on hard food 

## First Aid

Save any tooth that has been knocked out. Bring it to your dentist as soon as
possible. The longer you wait, the less chance there is for your dentist to
fix it. Hold the tooth only by the crown (chewing edge).

You can take the tooth to the dentist in one of these ways:

    1. Try to place the tooth back in your mouth where it fell out, so it is level with other teeth. Bite down gently on a gauze or a wet tea bag to help keep it in place. Be careful not to swallow the tooth.
    2. If you cannot do the above step, place the tooth in a container and cover it with a small amount of cow's milk or saliva.
    3. You can also hold the tooth between your lower lip and gum or under your tongue.
    4. A tooth-saving storage device (Save-a-Tooth, EMT Tooth Saver) may be available at your dentist's office. This type of kit contains a travel case and fluid solution. Consider buying one for your home first aid kit. 

Also follow these steps:

    1. Apply a cold compress on the outside of your mouth and gums to ease pain.
    2. Apply direct pressure using gauze to control bleeding.

After your tooth has been replanted, you will most likely need a root canal to
remove the cut nerve that is inside your tooth.

You may not need an emergency visit for a simple chip or a broken tooth that
is not causing you discomfort. You should still have the tooth fixed to avoid
sharp edges that can cut your lips or tongue.

## DO NOT

If a tooth breaks or is knocked out:

    1. DO NOT handle the roots of the tooth. Handle only the chewing edge -- the crown (top) portion of the tooth.
    2. DO NOT scrape or wipe the root of the tooth to remove dirt.
    3. DO NOT brush or clean the tooth with alcohol or peroxide.
    4. DO NOT let the tooth dry out.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your dentist right away when a tooth is broken or knocked out. If you can
find the tooth, bring it with you to the dentist. Follow the steps in the
First Aid section above.

If you cannot close your upper and lower teeth together, your jaw may be
broken. This requires medical help right away at a dentist's office or
hospital.

## Prevention

Follow these guidelines to prevent broken or knocked out teeth:

    * Wear a mouth guard when playing any contact sport.
    * Avoid fights.
    * Avoid hard foods, such as bones, stale bread, tough bagels and unpopped popcorn kernels.
    * Always wear a seatbelt.

## Alternative Names

Teeth - broken; Tooth - knocked out

## References

Auerbach PS. Head (also eye, ear, nose, throat, and mouth). In: Auerbach PS,
ed. _Medicine for the Outdoors_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:160-189.

Cohenca N. Management of traumatic dental injuries. In: Torabinejad M, Walton
RE, Fouad AF, eds. _Endodontics: Principles and Practice_. 5th ed. St Louis,
MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 11.

Tinanoff N. Dental trauma. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF,
eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 314.

## Review Date 2/5/2018

Updated by: Ilona Fotek, DMD, MS, Dental Healing Arts, Jupiter, FL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Tooth
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ToothDisorders_thumb.jpg)Tooth
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

