Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003067.htm    
                                Description: A toothache is pain in or around a tooth.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Toothaches

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003067.htm

# Toothaches

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A toothache is pain in or around a tooth.

## Considerations

A toothache is often the result of dental cavities (tooth decay) or an
infection or irritation of the tooth. Tooth decay is often caused by poor
dental hygiene. It may also be partly inherited. In some cases, toothache may
be caused due to grinding teeth or other dental trauma.

Sometimes, pain that is felt in the tooth is actually due to pain in other
parts of the body. This is called referred pain. For example, an earache may
sometimes cause tooth pain.

## Causes

A toothache may occur because of:

    * Abscessed tooth
    * Earache
    * Injury to the jaw or mouth
    * Heart attack (can include jaw pain, neck pain, or toothache)
    * Sinus infection
    * Tooth decay
    * Tooth trauma such as wear, injury, or fracture

## Home Care

You can use over-the-counter pain medicine if you can't see your dentist or
primary health care provider right away.

Your dentist will first diagnose the source of the pain and recommend
treatment. You may be prescribed antibiotics, pain medicines, or other drugs.

Use good oral hygiene to prevent tooth decay. A low-sugar diet is recommended
along with regular flossing, brushing with fluoride toothpaste, and regular
professional cleaning. Sealants and fluoride applications by the dentist are
important for preventing tooth decay. Also, tell your dentist if you think you
might grind your teeth.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Seek medical care if:

    * You have a severe toothache
    * You have a toothache that lasts longer than a day or two
    * You have fever, earache, or pain when opening your mouth wide

Note: The dentist is an appropriate person to see for most causes of
toothaches. However, if the problem is referred pain from another location,
you may need to see your primary provider.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your dentist will examine your mouth, teeth, gums, tongue, throat, ears, nose,
and neck. You may need dental x-rays. Your dentist may recommend other tests,
depending on the suspected cause.

Your dentist will ask questions about your medical history and symptoms,
including:

    * When did the pain start?
    * Where is the pain located, and how bad is it?
    * Does the pain wake you up at night?
    * Are there things that make the pain worse or better?
    * What medicines are you taking?
    * Do you have any other symptoms, such as fever?
    * Have you had any injuries?
    * When was your last dental checkup? 

Treatment will depend on the source of the pain. They may include removing and
filling cavities, root canal therapy, or extraction of the tooth. If the
toothache is related to trauma, such as grinding, your dentist may recommend a
special appliance to protect the teeth from wear.

## Alternative Names

Pain - tooth or teeth

## Images

    * ![Tooth anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8974t.jpg)Tooth anatomy

## References

Benko KR. Emergency dental procedures. In: Roberts JR, Custalow CB, Thomsen
TW, eds. _Roberts and Hedges' Clinical Procedures in Emergency Medicine and
Acute Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 64.

Mehta NR, Scrivani SJ, Spierings ELH. Dental and facial pain. In: Benzon, HT,
Rathmell JP, Wu CL, Turk DC, Argoff CE, Hurley RW, eds. _Practical Management
of Pain_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Mosby; 2014:chap 31.

Travers JB, Travers SP, Christian JM. Physiology of the oral cavity. In: Flint
PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds. _Cummings Otolaryngology: Head and Neck
Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 88.

## Review Date 2/5/2018

Updated by: Ilona Fotek, DMD, MS, Dental Healing Arts, Jupiter, FL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Tooth Decay](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ToothDecay_thumb.jpg)Tooth Decay
_Read more_

![Tooth
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ToothDisorders_thumb.jpg)Tooth
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

