Link: https://medlineplus.gov/mitochondrialdiseases.html    
                                Description: Mitochondria make energy for your cells. Diseases can affect mitochondria, often causing nerve and muscle problems. Find out more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Mitochondrial Diseases

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/mitochondrialdiseases.html

#  Mitochondrial Diseases

On this page

### Basics

  * Summary
  * Start Here
  * Symptoms

### Learn More

  * Related Issues
  * Specifics
  * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

  * No links available

### Research

  * Clinical Trials
  * Journal Articles

### Resources

  * Reference Desk
  * Find an Expert

### For You

  * No links available

## Summary

Metabolism is the process your body uses to make energy from the food you eat.
Food is made up of proteins, carbohydrates, and fats. Chemicals in your
digestive system (enzymes) break the food parts down into sugars and acids,
your body's fuel. Your body can use this fuel right away, or it can store the
energy in your body tissues. If you have a metabolic disorder, something goes
wrong with this process.

Mitochondrial diseases are a group of metabolic disorders. Mitochondria are
small structures that produce energy in almost all of your cells. They make it
by combining oxygen with the fuel molecules (sugars and fats) that come from
your food. When the mitochondria are defective, the cells do not have enough
energy. The unused oxygen and fuel molecules build up in the cells and cause
damage.

The symptoms of mitochondrial disease can vary. It depends on how many
mitochondria are defective, and where they are in the body. Sometimes only one
organ, tissue, or cell type is affected. But often the problem affects many of
them. Muscle and nerve cells have especially high energy needs, so muscular
and neurological problems are common. The diseases range from mild to severe.
Some types can be fatal.

Genetic mutations cause these diseases. They usually happen before age 20, and
some are more common in infants. There are no cures for these diseases, but
treatments may help with symptoms and slow down the disease. They may include
physical therapy, vitamins and supplements, special diets, and medicines.

## Start Here

  * Mitochondrial Myopathies (Muscular Dystrophy Association) \- PDF Also in Spanish
  * Mitochondrial Myopathy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke) \- Short Summary
  * Mitochondrial Myopathy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
  * What Is Mitochondrial Disease? (United Mitochondrial Disease Foundation)

## Symptoms

  * Mitochondrial Disease: Possible Symptoms (United Mitochondrial Disease Foundation)

## Related Issues

  * Autism Spectrum Disorder and Mitochondrial Disease (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

## Specifics

  * Alpers' Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
  * Barth Syndrome (BTHS) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
  * Overview of Barth Syndrome (Barth Syndrome Foundation)

## Genetics

  * Genetics Home Reference: 2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: ACAD9 deficiency ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: Barth syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: carnitine palmitoyltransferase I deficiency ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: carnitine palmitoyltransferase II deficiency ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: carnitine-acylcarnitine translocase deficiency ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: combined oxidative phosphorylation deficiency 1 ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: cytochrome c oxidase deficiency ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: deoxyguanosine kinase deficiency ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: ethylmalonic encephalopathy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: FBXL4-related encephalomyopathic mitochondrial DNA depletion syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: glutaric acidemia type II ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: GRACILE syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: HSD10 disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: Leber hereditary optic neuropathy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: Leigh syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: maternally inherited diabetes and deafness ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: mitochondrial complex I deficiency ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: mitochondrial complex III deficiency ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: mitochondrial complex V deficiency ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: mitochondrial encephalomyopathy, lactic acidosis, and stroke-like episodes ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: mitochondrial membrane protein-associated neurodegeneration ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: mitochondrial neurogastrointestinal encephalopathy disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: mitochondrial trifunctional protein deficiency ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: MPV17-related hepatocerebral mitochondrial DNA depletion syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: multiple mitochondrial dysfunctions syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: myoclonic epilepsy with ragged-red fibers ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: neuropathy, ataxia, and retinitis pigmentosa ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: ornithine translocase deficiency ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: primary coenzyme Q10 deficiency ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: progressive external ophthalmoplegia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: pyruvate carboxylase deficiency ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: RRM2B-related mitochondrial DNA depletion syndrome, encephalomyopathic form with renal tubulopathy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: succinate-CoA ligase deficiency ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: succinyl-CoA:3-ketoacid CoA transferase deficiency ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: TK2-related mitochondrial DNA depletion syndrome, myopathic form ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Clinical Trials

  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Mitochondrial Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

  * Article: Therapeutic management of stroke-like episodes varies from that of encephalitis.
  * Article: A meta-analysis and systematic review of Leigh syndrome: clinical manifestations, respiratory...
  * Article: Mitochondrial Gymnastics in Retinal Cells: A Resilience Mechanism Against Oxidative Stress...
  * Mitochondrial Diseases -- see more articles

## Reference Desk

  * Glossary (United Mitochondrial Disease Foundation)
  * What Is Mitochondrial DNA? ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Find an Expert

  * United Mitochondrial Disease Foundation

## Topic Image

![Mitochondrial
Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MitochondrialDiseases.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

  * Antimitochondrial antibody

## Related Health Topics

  * Amino Acid Metabolism Disorders
  * Carbohydrate Metabolism Disorders
  * Lipid Metabolism Disorders
  * Metabolic Disorders

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 20 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 23 August 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

