Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001060.htm    
                                Description: A tooth abscess is a buildup of infected material (pus) in the center of a tooth. It is an infection caused by bacteria.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Tooth abscess

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001060.htm

# Tooth abscess

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A tooth abscess is a buildup of infected material (pus) in the center of a
tooth. It is an infection caused by bacteria.

## Causes

A tooth abscess may form if there is tooth decay. It may also occur when a
tooth is broken, chipped, or injured in other ways. Openings in the tooth
enamel allow bacteria to infect the center of the tooth (the pulp). Infection
may spread from the root of the tooth to the bones supporting the tooth.

Infection results in a buildup of pus and tissue swelling within the tooth.
This causes a toothache. The toothache may stop if pressure is relieved. But
the infection will remain active and continue to spread. This will cause more
pain and can destroy tissue.

## Symptoms

The main symptom is a severe toothache. The pain is continuous. It does not
stop. It can be described as gnawing, sharp, shooting, or throbbing.

Other symptoms may include:

    * Bitter taste in the mouth
    * Breath odor
    * General discomfort, uneasiness, or ill feeling
    * Fever
    * Pain when chewing
    * Sensitivity of the teeth to hot or cold
    * Swelling of the gum over the infected tooth, which may look like a pimple
    * Swollen glands of the neck
    * Swollen area of the upper or lower jaw, which isÂ a very serious symptom 

## Exams and Tests

Your dentist will closely look at your teeth, mouth, and gums. It may hurt
when the dentist taps the tooth. Biting or closing your mouth tightly also
increases the pain. Your gums may be swollen and red and may drain thick
material.

Dental x-rays and other tests can help your dentist determine which tooth or
teeth are causing the problem.

## Treatment

The goals of treatment are to cure the infection, save the tooth, and prevent
complications.

Your dentist might prescribe antibiotics to fight the infection. Warm
saltwater rinses may help ease the pain. Over-the-counter pain relievers may
relieve your toothache and fever.

Do NOT place aspirin directly on your tooth or gums. This increases irritation
of the tissues and can result in mouth ulcers.

A root canal may be recommended in an attempt to save the tooth.

If you have a severe infection, your tooth may need to be removed, or you may
need surgery to drain the abscess. Some people may need to be admitted to the
hospital.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Untreated abscesses may get worse and can lead to life-threatening
complications.

Prompt treatment cures the infection in most cases. The tooth can often be
saved.

## Possible Complications

These complications can occur:

    * Loss of the tooth
    * Blood infection
    * Spread of infection to soft tissue
    * Spread of infection to the jaw bone
    * Spread of infection to other areas of the body, which can causeÂ brain abscess, inflammation in the heart, pneumonia, or other complications

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your dentist if you have a throbbing toothache that does not go away, or
if you notice a bubble (or âpimpleâ) on your gums.

## Prevention

Prompt treatment of dental decay reduces the risk of developing a tooth
abscess. Have your dentist examine any broken or chipped teeth right away.

## Alternative Names

Periapical abscess; Dental abscess; Tooth infection; Abscess - tooth

## Images

    * ![Tooth anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1121t.jpg)Tooth anatomy
    * ![Tooth abscess](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9979t.jpg)Tooth abscess

## References

Martin B, Baumhardt H, D'Alesio A, Woods K. Oral disorders. In: Zitelli BJ,
McIntire SC, Nowalk AJ, eds. _Zitelli and Davis' Atlas of Pediatric
Diagnosis_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 21.

Mehta NR, Scrivani SJ, Spierings ELH. Dental and facial pain. In: Benzon HT,
Rathmell JP, Wu CL, Turk DC, Argoff CE, Hurley RW, eds. _Practical Management
of Pain_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Mosby; 2014:chap 31.

Pedigo RA, Amsterdam JT. Oral medicine. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-
Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 60.

## Review Date 2/5/2018

Updated by: Ilona Fotek, DMD, MS, Dental Healing Arts, Jupiter, FL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Antibiotics](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AntibioticsAndAbscess_thumb.jpg)Abscess
_Read more_

![Tooth
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ToothDisorders_thumb.jpg)Tooth
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

