Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003426.htm    
                                Description: Plaque is a soft and sticky substance that collects around and between teeth. The home dental plaque identification test shows where plaque builds up. This helps you know how well you are brushing and    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Dental plaque identification at home

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003426.htm

# Dental plaque identification at home

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Plaque is a soft and sticky substance that collects around and between teeth.
The home dental plaque identification test shows where plaque builds up. This
helps you know how well you are brushing and flossing your teeth.

Plaque is the major cause of tooth decay and gum disease (gingivitis). It is
hard to see with the naked eye because it is whitish colored, like teeth.

## How the Test is Performed

There are two ways to perform this test.

    * One method uses special tablets that contain a red dye that stains the plaque. You chew 1 tablet thoroughly, moving the mixture of saliva and dye over your teeth and gums for about 30 seconds. Then rinse your mouth with water and examine your teeth. Any red-stained areas are plaque. A small dental mirror may help you check all areas.
    * The second method uses a plaque light. You swirl a special fluorescent solution around your mouth. Then rinse your mouth gently with water. Examine your teeth and gums while shining an ultraviolet plaque light into your mouth. The light will make any plaque look bright yellow-orange. The advantage of this method is that it leaves no red stains in your mouth.

In the office, dentists are often able to detect plaque by doing a thorough
exam with dental tools.

## How to Prepare for the Test

Brush and floss your teeth thoroughly.

## How the Test will Feel

Your mouth may feel slightly dried out after using the dye.

## Why the Test is Performed

The test helps identify missed plaque. It can encourage you to improve your
brushing and flossing so that you remove more plaque from your teeth. Plaque
that remains on your teeth can cause tooth decay or make your gums bleed
easily and become red or swollen.

## Normal Results

No plaque or food debris will be seen on your teeth.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

The tablets will stain areas of plaque dark red.

The plaque light solution will color the plaque a bright orange-yellow.

The colored areas show where brushing and flossing was not sufficient. These
areas need to be brushed again to get rid of the stained plaque.

## Risks

There are no risks.

## Considerations

The tablets may cause a temporary pink coloring of your lips and cheeks. They
may color your mouth and tongue red. Dentists suggest using them at night so
that the color will be gone by morning.

## Images

    * ![Dental plaque stain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9260t.jpg)Dental plaque stain

## References

Hughes CV, Dean JA. Mechanical and chemotherapeutic home oral hygiene. In:
Dean JA, ed. _McDonald and Avery's Dentistry of the Child and Adolescent_.
10th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2016:chap 7.

Perry DA. Plaque biofilm control for the periodontal patient. In: Newman MG,
Takei HH, Klokkevold PR, Carranza FA, eds. _Carranza's Clinical
Periodontology_. 12th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 45.

## Review Date 2/5/2018

Updated by: Ilona Fotek, DMD, MS, Dental Healing Arts, Jupiter, FL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Dental Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DentalHealth_thumb.jpg)Dental
Health _Read more_

![Tooth Decay](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ToothDecay_thumb.jpg)Tooth Decay
_Read more_

![Tooth
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ToothDisorders_thumb.jpg)Tooth
Disorders _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

