Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003801.htm    
                                Description: Dental x-rays are a type of image of the teeth and mouth. X-rays are a form of high energy electromagnetic radiation. The x-rays penetrate the body to form an image on film or screen. X-rays can be either    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Dental x-rays

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003801.htm

# Dental x-rays

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Dental x-rays are a type of image of the teeth and mouth. X-rays are a form of
high energy electromagnetic radiation. The x-rays penetrate the body to form
an image on film or screen. X-rays can be either digital or developed on a
film.

Structures that are dense (such as silver fillings or metal restoration) will
block most of the light energy from the x-ray. This makes them appear white in
the image. Structures that contain air will be black and teeth, tissue, and
fluid will appear as shades of gray.

## How the Test is Performed

The test is performed in the dentist's office. There are many types of dental
x-rays. Some of them are:

    * Bitewing. Shows the crown portions of the top and bottom teeth together when the person bites on a biting tab.
    * Periapical. Shows 1 or 2 complete teeth from crown to root.
    * Palatal (also called occlusal). Captures all the upper or lower teeth in one shot while the film rests on the biting surface of the teeth.
    * Panoramic. Requires a special machine that rotates around the head. The x-ray captures all of the jaws and teeth in one shot. It is used to plan treatment for dental implants, check for impacted wisdom teeth, and detect jaw problems. A panoramic x-ray is not the best method for detecting cavities, unless the decay is very advanced and deep.
    * Cephalometric. Presents the side view of the face and represents relationship of the jaw to each other as well as to the rest of the structures. It is helpful to diagnose any airway problems. 

Many dentists are also taking x-rays using digital technology. These images
run through a computer. The amount of radiation given off during the procedure
is less than traditional methods. Other types of dental x-rays can create a
3-D picture of the jaw. Cone beam computerized tomography (CBCT) may be used
before dental surgery, such as when several implants are being placed.

## How to Prepare for the Test

There is no special preparation. You need to remove any metal objects in the
area of the x-ray exposure. A lead apron may be placed over your body. Tell
your dentist if you might be pregnant.

## How the Test will Feel

The x-ray itself causes no discomfort. Biting on the piece of film makes some
people gag. Slow, deep breathing through the nose usually relieves this
feeling. Both CBCT and cephalometric x-ray do not require any biting pieces.

## Why the Test is Performed

Dental x-rays help diagnose disease and injury of the teeth and gums as well
as help planning the appropriate treatment.

## Normal Results

Normal x-rays show a normal number, structure, and position of the teeth and
jaw bones. There are no cavities or other problems.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Dental x-rays may be used to identify the following:

    * The number, size, and position of teeth
    * Partially or fully impacted teeth
    * The presence and severity of tooth decay (called cavities or dental caries)
    * Bone damage (such as from gum disease called periodontitis)
    * Abscessed teeth
    * Fractured jaw
    * Problems in the way the upper and lower teeth fit together (malocclusion)
    * Other abnormalities of the teeth and jaw bones 

## Risks

There is very low radiation exposure from dental x-rays. However, no one
should receive more radiation than necessary. A lead apron can be used to
cover the body and reduce radiation exposure. Pregnant women should not have
x-rays taken unless necessary.

## Considerations

Dental x-rays can reveal dental cavities before they are clinically visible,
even to the dentist. Many dentists will take yearly bitewings to look for
early development of cavities in between the teeth.

## Alternative Names

X-ray - teeth; Radiograph - dental; Bitewings; Periapical film; Panoramic
film; Cephalometric x-ray; Digital image

## References

Berman LH, Rotstein I. Diagnosis. In: Hargreaves KM, Berman LH, eds. _Cohen's
Pathways of the Pulp_. 11th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2016:chap 1.

Brame JL, Hunt LC, Nesbit SP. Maintenance phase of care. In: Stefanac SJ,
Nesbit SP, eds. _Diagnosis and Treatment Planning in Dentistry_. 3rd ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2017:chap 11.

Parks ET, Aps JK. Radiographic techniques. In: Dean JA, ed. _McDonald and
Avery's Dentistry for the Child and Adolescent_. 10th ed. St Louis, MO:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 2.

## Review Date 2/5/2018

Updated by: Ilona Fotek, DMD, MS, Dental Healing Arts, Jupiter, FL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Dental Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DentalHealth_thumb.jpg)Dental
Health _Read more_

![Tooth
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ToothDisorders_thumb.jpg)Tooth
Disorders _Read more_

![X-Rays](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Xray_thumb.jpg)X-Rays _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

