Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007631.htm    
                                Description: A crown is a tooth-shaped cap that replaces your normal tooth above the gum line. You may need a crown to support a weak tooth or to make your tooth look better.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Dental crowns

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007631.htm

# Dental crowns

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A crown is a tooth-shaped cap that replaces your normal tooth above the gum
line. You may need a crown to support a weak tooth or to make your tooth look
better.

## Description

Getting a dental crown usually takes two dental visits.

At the first visit, the dentist will:

    * Numb the neighboring teeth and gum area around the tooth that is getting the crown so you do not feel anything.
    * Remove any old and failing restorations or decay from the tooth.
    * Reshape your tooth to prepare it for a crown.
    * Take an impression of your tooth to send to the dental lab where they make the permanent crown. Some dentists can digitally scan the tooth and make the crown in their office.
    * Make and fit your tooth with a temporary crown.

At the second visit, the dentist will:

    * Remove the temporary crown.
    * Fit your permanent crown. Your dentist may take an x-ray to make sure the crown fits well.
    * Cement the crown in place.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

A crown can be used to:

    * Attach a bridge, which fills a gap created by missing teeth
    * Repair a weak tooth and keep it from breaking
    * Support and cover a tooth
    * Replace a misshapen tooth or restore a dental implant
    * Correct a misaligned tooth 

Talk to your dentist if you need a crown. You may need a crown because you
have a:

    * Large cavity with too little of the natural tooth left to hold a filling
    * Chipped or broken tooth
    * Worn down or cracked tooth from grinding your teeth
    * Discolored or stained tooth
    * Badly shaped tooth that does not match your other teeth 

## Risks

Several problems can occur with a crown:

    *  **Your tooth under the crown can still get a cavity:** To prevent cavities, be sure to brush your teeth twice a day and floss once a day.
    *  **The crown could fall off:** This can happen if the core of the tooth that holds the crown in place is too weak. If the nerve of the tooth is affected, you may need a root canal procedure to save the tooth. Or, you may need to have the tooth pulled and replaced with a dental implant.
    *  **Your crown could chip or crack:** If you grind your teeth or clench your jaw, you may need to wear a night mouth guard to protect your crown when you sleep.
    *  **The nerve of your tooth could become extra sensitive to cold and hot temperatures:** It may be painful. In this case, you may need a root canal procedure.

## Before the Procedure

There are several types of crowns, and each has pros and cons. Talk to your
dentist about the type of crown that works best for you. The different types
of crowns include:

Stainless steel crowns:

    * Are pre-made.
    * Work well as temporary crowns, especially for young children. The crown falls out when the child loses the baby tooth. 

Metal crowns:

    * Hold up to chewing and teeth grinding
    * Rarely chip
    * Last the longest
    * Do not look natural 

Resin crowns:

    * Cost less than other crowns
    * Wear down more quickly and may need to be replaced sooner than other crowns
    * Are weaker and prone to cracking 

Ceramic or porcelain crowns:

    * Wear down opposing teeth more than metal crowns
    * Match the color of other teeth
    * May be a good choice if you have a metal allergy 

Porcelain fused to metal crowns:

    * Are made from porcelain covering a metal crown
    * Metal makes the crown stronger
    * Porcelain part is more prone to fracture than crowns made of all porcelain 

## After the Procedure

While you have the temporary crown in place, you may need to:

    * Slide your floss out, rather than lifting it up, which can pull the crown off the tooth.
    * Avoid sticky foods, such as gummy bears, caramels, bagels, nutrition bars, and gum.
    * Try to chew of the other side of your mouth. 

Call your dentist if you:

    * Have swelling that is getting worse.
    * Feel that your bite is not right.
    * Lose your temporary crown.
    * Feel as if your tooth is out of place.
    * Have pain in the tooth that is not relieved with over-the-counter pain medicine. . 

Once the permanent crown is in place:

    * If your tooth still has its nerve, you may have some sensitivity to heat or cold. This should go away over time.
    * Expect that it will take a few days to get used to the new crown in your mouth.
    * Take care of your crown the same way you take care of your normal teeth.
    * If you have a porcelain crown, you may want to avoid chewing on hard candy or ice to avoid chipping your crown. 

## Outlook (Prognosis)

When you have a crown, you should be more comfortable chewing, and it should
look good.

Most crowns can last at least 5 years and as long at 15 to 20 years.

## Alternative Names

Dental caps; Porcelain crowns; Lab-fabricated restoration

## References

American Dental Association website. Crowns. www.mouthhealthy.org/en/az-
topics/c/crowns. Accessed November 20, 2018.

Celenza V, Livers HN. Porcelain-full coverage and partial coverage
restorations. In: Aschheim KW, ed. _Esthetic Dentistry: A Clinical Approach to
Techniques and Materials_. 3rd ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier Mosby; 2015:chap 8.

## Review Date 10/14/2018

Updated by: Richard Port, DDS, MS, Diplomate: American Boards of Orthodontics
and Pediatric Dentistry, Private Practice, Orthodontics, Vernon Hills and
Gurnee, IL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Tooth
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ToothDisorders_thumb.jpg)Tooth
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

