Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001057.htm    
                                Description: An impacted tooth is a tooth that does not break through the gum.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Impacted tooth

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001057.htm

# Impacted tooth

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An impacted tooth is a tooth that does not break through the gum.

## Causes

Teeth start to pass through the gums (emerge) during infancy. This happens
again when permanent teeth replace the primary (baby) teeth.

If a tooth does not come in, or emerges only partially, it is considered to be
impacted. This most commonly happens with the wisdom teeth (the third set of
molars). They are the last teeth to erupt. They usually come in between the
ages of 17 and 21.

An impacted tooth remains stuck in gum tissue or bone for various reasons. The
area may be overcrowded, leaving no room for the teeth to emerge. For example,
the jaw may be too small to fit the wisdom teeth. Teeth may also become
twisted, tilted, or displaced as they try to emerge. This results in impacted
teeth.

Impacted wisdom teeth are very common. They are often painless and do not
cause problems. However, some professionals believe an impacted tooth pushes
on the next tooth, which pushes the next tooth. Eventually, this can cause a
misaligned bite. A partially emerged tooth can trap food, plaque, and other
debris in the soft tissue around it, which can lead to inflammation and
tenderness of the gums and unpleasant mouth odor. This is called
pericoronitis. The retained debris may also lead to the decay on the wisdom
tooth or the neighboring tooth, or even bone loss.

## Symptoms

There may be no symptoms of a fully impacted tooth. Symptoms of a partially
impacted tooth may include:

    * Bad breath
    * Difficulty opening the mouth (occasionally)
    * Pain or tenderness of the gums or jaw bone
    * Prolonged headache or jaw ache
    * Redness and swelling of the gums around the impacted tooth
    * Swollen lymph nodes of the neck (occasionally)
    * Unpleasant taste when biting down on or near the area
    * Visible gap where a tooth did not emerge

## Exams and Tests

Your dentist will look for swollen tissue over the area where a tooth has not
emerged, or has only partially emerged. The impacted tooth may be pressing on
nearby teeth. The gums around the area may show signs of infection such as
redness, drainage, and tenderness. As gums swell over impacted wisdom teeth
and then drain and tighten, it may feel like the tooth came in and then went
back down again.

Dental x-rays confirm the presence of one or more teeth that have not emerged.

## Treatment

No treatment may be needed if an impacted wisdom tooth is not causing any
problems. If the impacted tooth is somewhere towards the front, braces may be
recommended to help put the tooth into proper position.

Over-the-counter pain relievers may help if the impacted tooth causes
discomfort. Warm saltwater (one-half teaspoon or 3 grams of salt in one cup or
240 milliliters of water) or over-the-counter mouthwashes may be soothing to
the gums.

Removal of the tooth is the usual treatment for an impacted wisdom tooth. This
is done in the dentist's office. Most often, it will be done by an oral
surgeon. Antibiotics may be prescribed before the extraction if the tooth is
infected.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Impacted teeth may cause no problems for some people and may not need
treatment. Treatment is most often successful when the tooth does cause
symptoms.

Having wisdom teeth removed before age 20 often has better results than
waiting until you are older. This is because the roots are not yet fully
developed, which makes it easier to remove the tooth and to heal better. As a
person ages, the roots become longer and curved. Bone becomes more rigid, and
complications can develop.

## Possible Complications

Complications of an impacted tooth can include:

    * Abscess of the tooth or gum area
    * Chronic discomfort in the mouth
    * Infection
    * Malocclusion (poor alignment) of the teeth
    * Plaque trapped between teeth and gums
    * Periodontal disease on the neighboring tooth
    * Nerve damage, if the impacted tooth is near a nerve in the jaw called the mandibular nerve

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your dentist if you have an unemerged tooth (or partially emerged tooth)
and you have pain in the gums or other symptoms.

## Alternative Names

Tooth - unemerged; Unemerged tooth; Dental impaction; Unerupted tooth

## References

Ferneini EM, Bennett JD. Oral surgery for the pediatric patient. In: Dean JA,
ed. _McDonald and Avery's Dentistry of the Child and Adolescent_. 10th ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2016:chap 29.

Hupp JR. Principles of management of impacted teeth. In: Hupp JR, Ellis E,
Tucker MR, eds. _Contemporary Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery_. 6th ed. St.
Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2016:chap 9.

## Review Date 2/5/2018

Updated by: Ilona Fotek, DMD, MS, Dental Healing Arts, Jupiter, FL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Tooth
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ToothDisorders_thumb.jpg)Tooth
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

