Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007275.htm    
                                Description: A root canal is a dental procedure to remove dead or dying nerve tissue and bacteria from inside a tooth.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Root canal

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007275.htm

# Root canal

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A root canal is a dental procedure to remove dead or dying nerve tissue and
bacteria from inside a tooth.

## Description

A dentist will use a topical gel and a needle to place numbing medicine
(anesthetic) around the bad tooth. You may feel a slight prick when the needle
is being inserted.

Next, your dentist will use a tiny drill to remove a small portion of the top
part of your tooth to expose the pulp. This is typically called access.

Pulp is made up of nerves, blood vessels, and connective tissue. It is found
inside the tooth and runs in tooth canals all the way to the jaw bone. Pulp
supplies blood to a tooth and allows you to feel sensations such as
temperature.

The infected pulp is removed with special tools called files. The canals (tiny
pathways inside the tooth) are cleaned and irrigated with disinfecting
solution. Medicines may be placed into the area to make sure all the germs are
removed and to prevent further infection. Once the tooth is cleaned, canals
are filled with a permanent material.

The top side of the tooth may be sealed with a soft, temporary material. Once
the tooth is filled with a permanent material, a final crown may be placed on
top.

You may be given antibiotics to treat and prevent infection.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

A root canal is done if you have an infection that affects the pulp of a
tooth. Generally, there is pain and swelling in the area. The infection can be
the result of a tooth crack, cavity, or injury. It may also be the result of a
deep pocket in the gum area around a tooth.

If this is the case, a dental specialist known as a periodontist should
examine the area. Depending on the source of infection and severity of the
decay, the tooth may or may not be salvageable.

A root canal can save your tooth. Without treatment, the tooth may become so
damaged that it must be removed. Root canal must be followed by a permanent
restoration. This is done in order to restore the tooth to its original shape
and strength so it can withstand the force of chewing.

## Risks

Possible risks of this procedure are:

    * Abscess
    * Loss of tooth
    * Nerve damage
    * Tooth fracture

## After the Procedure

You will need to see your dentist after the procedure to make sure the
infection is gone. A dental x-ray will be taken. Regular dental checkups are
necessary. For adults, this usually means a visit twice a year.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

You may have some pain or soreness after the procedure. An over-the-counter
anti-inflammatory drug, such as ibuprofen, can help relieve discomfort.

Most people can return to their normal routine the same day. Until the tooth
is permanently filled or covered with a crown, you should avoid rough chewing
in the area.

## Alternative Names

Endodontic therapy; Root canal therapy

## References

Mehta NR, Scrivani SJ, Spierings ELH. Dental and facial pain. In: Benzon HT,
Rathmell JP, Wu CL, Turk DC, Argoff CE, Hurley RW, eds. _Practical Management
of Pain_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Mosby; 2014:chap 31.

Neville BW, Damm DD, Allen CM, Chi AC. Pulpal and periapical disease. In:
Neville BW, Damm DD, Allen CM, Chi AC, eds. _Oral and Maxillofacial
Pathology_. 4th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2016:chap 3.

Peters OA, Peters CI, Basrani B. Cleaning and shaping the root canal system.
In: Hargreaves KM, Berman LH, eds. _Cohen's Pathways of the Pulp_. 11th ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2016:chap 6.

## Review Date 2/5/2018

Updated by: Ilona Fotek, DMD, MS, Dental Healing Arts, Jupiter, FL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Tooth
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ToothDisorders_thumb.jpg)Tooth
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

