Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001578.htm    
                                Description: Amelogenesis imperfecta is a tooth development disorder. It causes the tooth enamel to be thin and abnormally formed. Enamel is the outer layer of teeth.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Amelogenesis imperfecta

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001578.htm

# Amelogenesis imperfecta

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Amelogenesis imperfecta is a tooth development disorder. It causes the tooth
enamel to be thin and abnormally formed. Enamel is the outer layer of teeth.

## Causes

Amelogenesis imperfecta is passed down through families as a dominant trait.
That means you only need to get the abnormal gene from one parent in order to
get the disease.

## Symptoms

The enamel of the tooth is soft and thin. The teeth appear yellow and are
easily damaged. Both baby teeth and permanent teeth can be affected.

## Exams and Tests

A dentist can identify and diagnose this condition.

## Treatment

The treatment depends on how severe the problem is. Full crowns may be
necessary to improve the appearance of the teeth and protect them from further
damage. Eating a diet that is low in sugar and practicing very good oral
hygiene can reduce the chance of developing cavities.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Treatment is often successful in protecting the teeth.

## Possible Complications

The enamel is easily damaged, which affects the appearance of the teeth,
especially if left untreated.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your dentist if you have symptoms of this condition.

## References

Neville BW, Damm DD, Allen CM, Chi AC. Abnormalities of teeth. In: Neville BW,
Damm DD, Allen CM, Chi AC, eds. _Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology_. 4th ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2016:chap 2.

Tinanoff N. Development and developmental anomalies of the teeth. In: Kliegman
RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_.
20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 307.

## Review Date 2/5/2018

Updated by: Ilona Fotek, DMD, MS, Dental Healing Arts, Jupiter, FL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Tooth
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ToothDisorders_thumb.jpg)Tooth
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

