Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001413.htm    
                                Description: Bruxism is when you grind your teeth (slide your teeth back and forth over each other).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bruxism

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001413.htm

# Bruxism

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Bruxism is when you grind your teeth (slide your teeth back and forth over
each other).

## Causes

People can clench and grind without being aware of it. It can happen during
the day and night. Bruxism during sleep is often a bigger problem because it
is harder to control.

There is some disagreement about the cause of bruxism. Daily stress may be the
trigger in many people. Some people probably clench or grind their teeth and
never feel symptoms.

Factors that influence whether or not bruxism causes pain and other problems
will vary from person to person. They may include:

    * How much stress you have
    * How long and how tightly you clench and grind your teeth 
    * Whether your teeth are misaligned 
    * Your posture 
    * Your ability to relax 
    * Your diet 
    * Your sleeping habits 

## Symptoms

Grinding your teeth puts pressure on the muscles, tissues, and other
structures around your jaw. The symptoms can cause temporomandibular joint
problems (TMJ).

Grinding can wear down your teeth. It can be noisy enough at night to bother
sleeping partners.

Symptoms of bruxism include:

    * Anxiety, stress, and tension
    * Depression
    * Earache (partly because the structures of the temporomandibular joint are very close to the ear canal, and because you can feel pain in a different location than its source; this is called referred pain)
    * Eating disorders
    * Headache
    * Muscle tenderness, especially in the morning
    * Hot, cold, or sweet sensitivity in the teeth
    * Insomnia
    * Sore or painful jaw 

## Exams and Tests

An exam can rule out other disorders that may cause similar jaw pain or ear
pain, including:

    * Dental disorders
    * Ear disorders, such as ear infections
    * Problems with the temporomandibular joint (TMJ) 

You may have a history of a high stress level and tension.

## Treatment

The goals of treatment are to reduce pain, prevent permanent damage to the
teeth, and reduce clenching as much as possible.

These self-care tips may help relieve pain:

    * Apply ice or wet heat to sore jaw muscles. Either can help. 
    * Avoid eating hard or dense foods like nuts, candies, and steak.
    * Do not chew gum.
    * Drink plenty of water every day.
    * Get plenty of sleep.
    * Learn physical therapy stretching exercises to help the muscles and joints on each side of your head get back to normal.
    * Massage the muscles of your neck, shoulders, and face. Look for small, painful nodules called trigger points that can cause pain throughout your head and face.
    * Relax your face and jaw muscles throughout the day. The goal is to make facial relaxation a habit.
    * Try to reduce your daily stress and learn relaxation techniques.

To prevent damage to your teeth, mouth guards or appliances (splints) are
often used to treat teeth grinding, clenching, and TMJ disorders. A splint may
help protect your teeth from the pressure of grinding.

A well-fitting splint should help minimize the effects of grinding. However,
some people find that the symptoms go away as long as they use the splint, but
pain returns when they stop. The splint may also not work as well over time.

There are many types of splints. Some fit over the top teeth, some on the
bottom. They may be designed to keep your jaw in a more relaxed position or
provide some other function. If one type doesn't work, another may. Botox
injections into the jaw muscles have also shown some success in controlling
clenching and grinding.

After splint therapy, adjustment of the bite pattern may help some people.

Finally, many approaches try to help people unlearn their clenching behaviors.
These are more successful for daytime clenching.

In some people, just relaxing and modifying daytime behavior is enough to
reduce nighttime bruxism. Methods to directly modify nighttime clenching have
not been well studied. They include biofeedback devices, self-hypnosis, and
other alternative therapies.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Bruxism is not a dangerous disorder. However, it can cause permanent damage to
the teeth and uncomfortable jaw pain, headaches, or ear pain.

## Possible Complications

Bruxism may cause:

    * Depression 
    * Eating disorders 
    * Insomnia 
    * Increased dental or TMJ problems 
    * Fractured teeth 
    * Receding gums 

Nightly grinding can awaken roommatesÂ or sleeping partners.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

See a dentist right away if you are having trouble eating or opening your
mouth. Keep in mind that a wide variety of possible conditions, from arthritis
to whiplash injuries, can cause TMJ symptoms. Therefore, see your dentist for
a full evaluation if self-care measures do not help within several weeks.

Grinding and clenching does not fall clearly intoÂ one medical discipline.
There is no recognized TMJ specialty in dentistry. For a massage-based
approach, look for a massage therapist trained in trigger point therapy,
neuromuscular therapy, or clinical massage.

Dentists who have more experience with TMJ disorders will typically take
x-rays and prescribe a mouth guard. Surgery is now considered a last resort
for TMJ.

## Prevention

Stress reduction and anxiety management may reduce bruxism in people who are
prone to the condition.

## Alternative Names

Teeth grinding

## References

Chokroverty S, Avidan AY. Sleep and its disorders. In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J,
Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in Clinical Practice_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 102.

Ryan CA, Trieu ML, DeMaso DR, Walter HJ. Motor disorders and habits. In:
Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 24.

## Review Date 2/5/2018

Updated by: Ilona Fotek, DMD, MS, Dental Healing Arts, Jupiter, FL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Temporomandibular Joint
Dysfunction](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TemporomandibularJointDysfunction_thumb.jpg)Temporomandibular
Joint Dysfunction _Read more_

![Tooth
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ToothDisorders_thumb.jpg)Tooth
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

