Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003064.htm    
                                Description: An abnormally shaped tooth is any tooth that has an irregular shape.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Tooth - abnormal shape

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003064.htm

# Tooth - abnormal shape

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An abnormally shaped tooth is any tooth that has an irregular shape.

## Considerations

The appearance of normal teeth varies, especially the molars. Abnormally
shaped teeth can result from many different conditions. Specific diseases can
affect tooth shape, tooth color, and when they grow in. Some diseases can lead
to absence of teeth.

## Causes

Some diseases that can cause abnormal tooth shape and growth are:

    * Congenital syphilis
    * Cerebral palsy
    * Ectodermal dysplasia, anhidrotic
    * Incontinentia pigmenti achromians
    * Cleidocranial dysostosis
    * Ehlers-Danlos syndrome
    * Ellis-van Creveld syndrome

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Talk to a dentist or health care provider if the shape of your child's teeth
appears to be abnormal.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The dentist will examine the mouth and teeth. You will be asked questions
about your child's medical history and symptoms, such as:

    * Does your child have any medical conditions that may cause abnormal tooth shape?
    * At what age did the teeth appear?
    * In what order did the teeth appear?
    * Does your child have other tooth problems (color, spacing)?
    * What other symptoms are also present? 

Braces, fillings, dental restorations, crowns, or bridges may be needed to
correct the abnormal shape and improve the appearance and spacing of the
teeth.

Dental x-rays and other diagnostic tests may be done.

## Alternative Names

Hutchinson incisors; Abnormal tooth shape; Peg teeth; Mulberry teeth; Conical
teeth

## References

Neville BW, Damm DD, Allen CM, Chi AC. Abnormalities of teeth. In: Neville BW,
Damm DD, Allen CM, Chi AC, eds. _Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology_. 4th ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2016:chap 2.

Tinanoff N. Development and developmental anomalies of the teeth. In: Kliegman
RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_.
20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 307.

## Review Date 2/5/2018

Updated by: Ilona Fotek, DMD, MS, Dental Healing Arts, Jupiter, FL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Tooth
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ToothDisorders_thumb.jpg)Tooth
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

