Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003061.htm    
                                Description: When a person    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Tooth formation - delayed or absent

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003061.htm

# Tooth formation - delayed or absent

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

When a person's teeth grow in, they may be delayed or not occur at all.

## Considerations

The age at which a tooth comes in varies. Most infants get their first tooth
between 4 and 8 months, but it may be earlier or later.

Sometimes, children or adults are missing teeth they never developed. Cosmetic
or orthodontic dentistry can correct this problem.

## Causes

Specific diseases can affect tooth shape, tooth color, when they grow in, or
tooth absence. Delayed or absent tooth formation can result from many
different conditions, including:

    * Apert syndrome
    * Cleidocranial dysostosis
    * Down syndrome
    * Ectodermal dysplasia
    * Ellis-van Creveld syndrome
    * Hypothyroidism
    * Hypoparathyroidism
    * Incontinentia pigmenti achromians
    * Progeria

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Talk to your health care provider if your child has not developed any teeth by
9 months of age.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will perform a physical exam. This will include a detailed look
at your child's mouth and gums. You will be asked questions such as:

    * In what order did the teeth emerge?
    * At what age did other family members develop teeth?
    * Are any other family members missing teeth that never "came in"?
    * What other symptoms are present? 

An infant with delayed or absent tooth formation may have other symptoms and
signs that indicate a specific medical condition.

Medical tests are not often needed. Most of the time, delayed tooth formation
is normal. Dental x-rays may be done.

## Alternative Names

Delayed or absent tooth formation; Teeth - delayed or absent formation;
Oligodontia; Anodontia

## Images

    * ![Tooth anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1121t.jpg)Tooth anatomy
    * ![Development of baby teeth](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1138t.jpg)Development of baby teeth
    * ![Development of permanent teeth](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18162t.jpg)Development of permanent teeth

## References

Dean JA, Turner EG. Eruption of the teeth: local, systemic, and congenital
factors that influence the process. In: Dean JA, ed. _McDonald and Avery's
Dentistry for the Child and Adolescent_. 10th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier;
2016:chap 19.

Tinanoff N. Development and developmental anomalies of the teeth. In: Kliegman
RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_.
20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 307.

## Review Date 2/5/2018

Updated by: Ilona Fotek, DMD, MS, Dental Healing Arts, Jupiter, FL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Tooth
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ToothDisorders_thumb.jpg)Tooth
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

