Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002962.htm    
                                Description: Bunion removal is surgery to treat deformed bones of the big toe and foot. A bunion occurs when the big toe points toward the second toe, forming a bump on the inner side of the foot.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bunion removal

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002962.htm

# Bunion removal

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Bunion removal is surgery to treat deformed bones of the big toe and foot. A
bunion occurs when the big toe points toward the second toe, forming a bump on
the inner side of the foot.

## Description

You will be given anesthesia (numbing medicine) so that you won't feel pain.

    * Local anesthesia -- Your foot may be numbed with pain medicine. You may also be given medicines that relax you. You will stay awake.
    * Spinal anesthesia -- This is also called regional anesthesia. The pain medicine is injected into a space in your spine. You will be awake but will not be able to feel anything below your waist.
    * General anesthesia -- You will be asleep and pain-free. 

The surgeon makes a cut around the toe joint and bones. The deformed joint and
bones are repaired using pins, screws, plates, or a cast to keep the bones in
place.

The surgeon may repair the bunion by:

    * Making certain tendons or ligaments shorter or longer.
    * Taking out the damaged part of the joints and then using screws, wires, or a plate to hold the joint together so that they can fuse.
    * Shaving off the bump on the toe joint.
    * Removing the damaged part of the joint.
    * Cutting parts of the bones on each side of the toe joint, and then putting them in their proper position. 

## Why the Procedure is Performed

Your doctor may recommend this surgery if you have a bunion that has not
gotten better with other treatments, such as shoes with a wider toe box.
Bunion surgery corrects the deformity and relieves pain caused by the bump.

## Risks

Risks for anesthesia and surgery in general include:

    * Allergic reactions to medicines
    * Breathing problems
    * Bleeding, blood clots, or infection 

Risks for bunion surgery include:

    * Numbness in the big toe
    * The wound does not heal well
    * The surgery does not correct the problem
    * Instability of the toe
    * Nerve damage
    * Persistent pain
    * Stiffness in the toe
    * Arthritis in the toe 

## Before the Procedure

Tell your health care provider what medicines you are taking, including drugs,
supplements, or herbs you bought without a prescription.

During the week before your surgery:

    * You may be asked to stop taking drugs that make it harder for your blood to clot. These include aspirin, ibuprofen, (Advil, Motrin), and naproxen (Naprosyn, Aleve).
    * Ask your provider which drugs you should still take on the day of your surgery.
    * If you have diabetes, heart disease, or other medical conditions, your surgeon will ask you to see your provider who treats you for these conditions.
    * Tell your provider if you have been drinking more than 1 or 2 servings of alcohol each day.
    * If you smoke, try to stop. Ask your provider for help. Smoking can slow down wound and bone healing.
    * Tell your provider if you get sick with a cold, flu, herpes infection, or other illness before your surgery. 

On the day of your surgery:

    * Follow instructions for not eating and drinking before the procedure.
    * Take your drugs your provider told you to take with a small sip of water.
    * Arrive on time at the hospital. 

## After the Procedure

Most people go home the same day they have bunion removal surgery.

Your provider will tell you how to take care of yourself after surgery.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

You should have less pain after your bunion is removed and your foot has
healed. You should also be able to walk and wear shoes more easily. This
surgery does repair some of the deformity of your foot, but it will not give
you a perfect-looking foot.

Full recovery may take 3 to 5 months.

## Alternative Names

Bunionectomy; Hallux valgus correction; Bunion excision; Osteotomy - bunion;
Exostomy - bunion; Arthrodesis - bunion

## Patient Instructions

    * Bathroom safety for adults
    * Bunion removal - discharge 
    * Preventing falls
    * Preventing falls - what to ask your doctor 
    * Surgical wound care - open

## Images

    * ![Bunion removal - Series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/7038t.jpg)Bunion removal - series

## References

Coughlin MJ, Anderson RB. Hallux valgus. In: Coughlin MJ, Saltzman CL,
Anderson RB, eds. _Mann's Surgery of the Foot and Ankle_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Mosby; 2014:chap 6.

Murphy GA. Disorders of the hallux. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale ST, eds.
_Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 81.

## Review Date 3/20/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Toe Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ToeInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Toe
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

