Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001231.htm    
                                Description: A bunion forms when your big toe points toward the second toe. This causes a bump to appear on the inside edge of your toe.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bunions

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001231.htm

# Bunions

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A bunion forms when your big toe points toward the second toe. This causes a
bump to appear on the inside edge of your toe.

## Causes

Bunions are more common in women than men. The problem can run in families.
People born with abnormal bones in their feet are more likely to form a
bunion.

Wearing narrow-toed, high-heeled shoes may lead to the development of a
bunion.

The condition may become painful as the bump gets worse. Extra bone and a
fluid-filled sac grow at the base of the big toe.

![Bunion](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/200043t.gif)Watch this
video about:Bunion

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

    * Red, thickened skin along the inside edge at the base of the big toe.
    * A bony bump at the first toe joint, with decreased movement in the toe site.
    * Pain over the joint, which pressure from shoes makes worse.
    * Big toe turned toward the other toes and may cross over the second toe. Corns and calluses develop as a result where the first and second toes overlap. 
    * Difficulty wearing regular shoes.

You may have problems finding shoes that fit or that do not cause pain.

## Exams and Tests

A health care provider can very often diagnose a bunion by looking at it. A
foot x-ray can show an abnormal angle between the big toe and the foot. In
some cases, arthritis may also be seen.

## Treatment

When a bunion first begins to develop, you can do the following to care of
your feet.

    * Wear wide-toed shoes. This can often solve the problem and prevent you from needing more treatment.
    * Wear felt or foam pads on your foot to protect the bunion, or devices called spacers to separate the first and second toes. These are available at drugstores.
    * Try cutting a hole in a pair of old, comfortable shoes to wear around the house. 
    * Talk to your provider about whether you need inserts to correct flat feet. 
    * If the bunion gets worse and more painful, surgery may help. The surgery bunionectomy realigns the toe and removes the bony bump. There are more than 100 different surgeries to treat this condition.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

You can keep a bunion from worsening by taking care of it. Try to wear
different shoes when it first starts to develop.

Teenagers may have more trouble treating a bunion than adults. This may be the
result of an underlying bone problem.

Surgery reduces the pain in many, but not all people with bunions. After
surgery, you may not be able to wear tight or fashionable shoes.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if the bunion:

    * Continues to cause pain even after self-care, such as wearing wide-toed shoes
    * Prevents you from doing your usual activities
    * Has any signs of infection (like redness or swelling), especially if you have diabetes
    * Worsening pain that is not relieved by rest
    * Prevents you from finding a shoe that fits
    * Causes stiffness and loss of movement in your big toe

## Prevention

Avoid compressing the toes of your foot with narrow, poor-fitting shoes.

## Alternative Names

Hallux valgus

## Patient Instructions

    * Bunion removal - discharge 

## Images

    * ![Bunion removal - Series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/7038t.jpg)Bunion removal - series

## References

Coughlin MJ, Anderson RB. Hallux valgus. In: Coughlin MJ, Saltzman CL,
Anderson RB, eds. _Mann's Surgery of the Foot and Ankle_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 6.

Murphy GA. Disorders of the hallux. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale ST, eds.
_Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 81.

Wexler D, Grosser DM, Kile TA. Bunion and bunionette. In: Frontera WR, Silver
JK, Rizzo TD, eds. _Essentials of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation_. 3rd
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 84.

## Review Date 3/20/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Corns and
Calluses](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CornsandCalluses_thumb.jpg)Corns and
Calluses _Read more_

![Toe Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ToeInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Toe
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

