Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002967.htm    
                                Description: Replantation of digits is surgery to reattach fingers or toes that have been cut off (amputated).     
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Replantation of digits

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002967.htm

# Replantation of digits

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Replantation of digits is surgery to reattach fingers or toes that have been
cut off (amputated).

## Description

Surgery is done the following way:

    * General anesthesiaÂ will be given. This means the person will be asleep and unable to feel pain. Or regional anesthesia (spinal and epidural) will be given to numb the arm or leg.
    * The surgeon removes damaged tissue.
    * The ends of the bones are trimmed.
    * The surgeon places the finger or toe (called the digit) in place. The bones are rejoined with wires or a plate and screws.
    * Tendons are repaired, followed by nerves and blood vessels. Nerve and blood vessel repair is the most important step to the success of the procedure. If needed, tissue with nerves and blood vessels from another part of the body is used.
    * The wound is closed with stitches and bandaged.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

The surgery is done when fingers or toes have been amputated, and are in a
condition that would allow replantation.

## Risks

Risks for anesthesia and surgery in general include:

    * Reactions to medicines, breathing problems
    * Bleeding, blood clots, infection

Risks of this surgery include:

    * Death of the replanted tissue
    * Decreased nerve function or movement in the replanted digit
    * Loss of sensation in the replanted tissue
    * Stiffness of the digits
    * Pain that continues after surgeryÂ 

## After the Procedure

Special care will be taken while you are in the hospital to make sure blood
flows properly to the reattached part. The arm or leg will be kept raised. The
room may be kept warm to ensure proper blood flow. The reattached part will be
checked often to make sure there is good blood flow.

After you are released from the hospital, you may need to wear a cast to
protect the finger or toe.Â The surgeon may prescribe blood-thinning medicines
to prevent blood clots.

Proper care of the amputated part or parts is very important to successful
replantation. Under the right conditions, there is a good chance that the
surgery can restore the use of the finger or toe. You will need follow-up
visits with your health care provider, who will continue checking blood flow
in the surgery area.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Children are better candidates for replantation surgery because of their
greater ability to heal and regrow tissue.

Replantation of an amputated part isÂ best done within 6 hours after the
injury.Â But replantation can still be successful if the amputated part has
been cooled for up to 24 hours after the injury.

You will not have the same flexibility in the finger or toe after surgery.
Pain and sensation changes may continue.

## Alternative Names

Revascularization of amputated digits; Reattachment of amputated fingers

## Images

    * ![Amputated finger](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9821t.jpg)Amputated finger
    * ![Replantation of digits - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10291t.jpg)Replantation of digits - series

## References

Higgins JP. Replantation. In: Wolfe SW, Hotchkiss RN, Pederson WC, Kozin SH,
Cohen MS, eds. _Green's Operative Hand Surgery_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2017:chap 42.

Klausmeyer MA, Jupiter JB. Replantation. In: Browner BD, Jupiter JB, Krettek
C, Anderson PA, eds. _Skeletal Trauma: Basic Science, Management, and
Reconstruction_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 51.

Rose E. Management of amputations. In: Roberts JR, Custalow CB, Thomsen TW,
eds. _Roberts and Hedges' Clinical Procedures in Emergency Medicine and Acute
Care_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 47.

## Review Date 8/15/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Finger Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FingerInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Finger
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![Toe Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ToeInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Toe
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

