Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003176.htm    
                                Description: Polydactyly is a condition in which a person has more than 5 fingers per hand or 5 toes per foot.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Polydactyly

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003176.htm

# Polydactyly

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Polydactyly is a condition in which a person has more than 5 fingers per hand
or 5 toes per foot.

## Considerations

Having extra fingers or toes (6 or more) can occur on its own. There may not
be any other symptoms or disease present. Polydactyly may be passed down in
families. This trait involves only oneÂ gene that can cause several
variations.

African Americans, more than other ethnic groups, can inherit a 6th finger. In
most cases, this is not caused by a genetic disease.

Polydactyly can also occur with some genetic diseases.

Extra digits may be poorly developed and attached by a small stalk. This most
often occurs on the little finger side of the hand. Poorly formed digits are
usually removed. Simply tying a tight string around the stalk can cause it to
fall off in time if there are no bones in the digit.

In some cases, the extra digits may be well-formed and can even function.

Larger digits may need surgery to be removed.

## Causes

Causes may include:

    * Asphyxiating thoracic dystrophy
    * Carpenter syndrome
    * Ellis-van Creveld syndrome (chondroectodermal dysplasia)
    * Familial polydactyly
    * Laurence-Moon-Biedl syndrome
    * Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome
    * Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome
    * Trisomy 13

## Home Care

You may need to take steps at home after surgery to remove an extra digit.
These steps may include checking the area to make sure the area is healing and
changing the dressing.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Most of the time, this condition is discovered at birth when the baby is still
in the hospital.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The health care provider will diagnose the condition based on a family
history, medical history, and a physical exam.

Medical history questions may include:

    * Have any other family members been born with extra fingers or toes?
    * Is there a known family history of any of the disorders linked to polydactyly?
    * Are there any other symptoms or problems? 

Tests used to diagnose the condition:

    * Chromosome studies
    * Enzyme tests
    * X-rays
    * Metabolic studies 

You may want to make a note of this condition in your personal medical record.

Extra digits may be discovered the first 3 months of pregnancy with ultrasound
or a more advanced test called embryofetoscopy.

## Alternative Names

Extra digits; Supernumerary digits

## Images

    * ![Polydactyly - an infant's hand](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1719t.jpg)Polydactyly - an infant's hand

## References

Carrigan RB. The upper limb. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor
NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 681.

Mauck BM, Jobe MT. Congenital anomalies of the hand. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH,
Canale ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 79.

Winell JJ, Davidson RS. The foot and toes. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St.
Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 674.

## Review Date 10/18/2017

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Finger Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FingerInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Finger
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![Toe Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ToeInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Toe
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

