Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000575.htm    
                                Description: You had surgery to repair your hammer toe.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hammer toe repair - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000575.htm

# Hammer toe repair - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You had surgery to repair your hammer toe.

    * Your surgeon made an incision (cut) in your skin to expose your toe joint and bones.
    * Your surgeon then repaired your toe.
    * You may have a wire or pin holding your toe joint together.
    * You may have swelling in your foot after surgery.

## Self-care at Home

Keep your leg propped up on 1 or 2 pillows for the first 2 to 3 days to
decrease swelling. Try to limit the amount of walking you have to do.

If it does not cause pain, you will be allowed to put weight on your foot 2 or
3 days after surgery. You can use crutches until the pain lessens. Make sure
you put weight on your heel but not on your toes.

Most people wear a shoe with a wooden sole for about 4 weeks. After that, your
health care provider may advise you to wear a wide, deep, soft shoe for up to
4 to 6 weeks. Follow your provider's instructions.

You will have a bandage on your foot that will be changed about 2 weeks after
surgery, when your stitches are removed.

    * You will have a new bandage for another 2 to 4 weeks.
    * Make sure to keep the bandage clean and dry. Take sponge baths or cover your foot with a plastic bag when you take showers. Make sure water cannot leak into the bag. 

If you have a wire (Kirschner or K-wire) or pin, it:

    * Will stay in place for a few weeks to allow your toes to heal
    * Is most often not painful
    * Will be easily removed in your surgeon's office 

To care for the wire:

    * Keep it clean and protected by wearing a sock and your orthopedic boot.
    * Once you can shower and get your foot wet, dry the wire well afterward. 

For pain, you can buy these pain medicines without a prescription:

    * Ibuprofen (such as Advil or Motrin)
    * Naproxen (such as Aleve or Naprosyn)
    * Acetaminophen (such as Tylenol) 

If you use pain medicine:

    * Talk with your provider before using these medicines if you have heart disease, high blood pressure, kidney disease, liver disease, or have had stomach ulcers or bleeding.
    * DO NOT take more than the amount recommended on the bottle. 

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider or surgeon if you:

    * Have bleeding from your wound
    * Have increased swelling around the wound, wire, or pin
    * Have pain that does not go away after you take pain medicine
    * Notice a bad smell or pus coming from the wound, wire, or pin
    * Have a fever
    * Have drainage or redness around the pins

Call 9-1-1 if you:

    * Have trouble breathing
    * Have an allergic reaction

## Alternative Names

Osteotomy - hammer toe

## References

Montero DP. Hammer toe. In: Frontera WR, Silver JK, Rizzo TD, eds. _Essentials
of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 88.

Murphy GA. Lesser toe abnormalities. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale ST, eds.
_Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 83.

Myerson MS, Kadakia AR. Correction of lesser toe deformity. In: Myerson MS,
Kadakia AR, eds. _Reconstructive Foot and Ankle Surgery: Management of
Complications_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 7.

## Review Date 11/5/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Toe Injuries and Disorders

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

