Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000191.htm    
                                Description: You had surgery to remove a deformity on your toe called a bunion. This article tells you how to take care of yourself when you go home from the hospital.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bunion removal - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000191.htm

# Bunion removal - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You had surgery to remove a deformity on your toe called a bunion. This
article tells you how to take care of yourself when you go home from the
hospital.

## When You're in the Hospital

You had surgery to repair a bunion. The surgeon made an incision (cut) in your
skin to expose the bones and joint of your big toe. Your surgeon then repaired
your deformed toe. You may have screws, wires, or a plate holding your toe
joint together.

## What to Expect at Home

You may have swelling in your foot. Keep your leg propped up on 1 or 2 pillows
under your foot or calf muscle when you are sitting or lying down to reduce
swelling. Swelling may last 9 to 12 months.

## Wound Care

Keep the dressing around your incision clean and dry until it is removed. Take
sponge baths or cover your foot and dressing with a plastic bag when you take
showers if it is OK with your health care provider. Make sure water cannot
leak into the bag.

## Activity

You may need to wear a surgical shoe or cast for up to 8 weeks to keep your
foot in the right position as it heals.

You will need to use a walker, cane, knee scooter, or crutches. Check with
your surgeon before putting weight on your foot. You may be able to put some
weight on your foot and walk short distances 2 or 3 weeks after surgery.

You will need to do exercises that will strengthen the muscles around your
ankle and maintain the range of motion in your foot. Your provider or a
physical therapist will teach you these exercises.

When you are able to wear shoes again, wear only athletic shoes or soft
leather shoes for at least 3 months. Choose shoes that have plenty of room in
the toe box. DO NOT wear narrow shoes or high heels for at least 6 months, if
ever.

## Pain

You will get a prescription for pain medicine. Get it filled when you go home
so you have it when you need it. Take your pain medicine before you start
having pain so that it does not get too bad.

Taking ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) or another anti-inflammatory medicine may
also help. Ask your provider what other medicines are safe to take with your
pain medicine.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

    * Your dressing becomes loose, comes off, or gets wet
    * You have a fever or chills
    * Your foot around the incision is warm or red
    * Your incision is bleeding or you have drainage from the wound
    * Your pain does not go away after you take pain medicine
    * You have swelling, pain, and redness in your calf muscle

## Alternative Names

Bunionectomy - discharge; Hallux valgus correction - discharge

## References

Murphy GA. Disorders of the hallux. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale ST, eds.
_Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 81.

Myerson MS, Kadakia AR. Management of complications after correction of hallux
valgus. In: Myerson MS, Kadakia AR, eds. _Reconstructive Foot and Ankle
Surgery: Management of Complications_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2019:chap 4.

## Read More

    * Bunion removal
    * Bunions

## Review Date 11/5/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Toe Injuries and Disorders

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

