Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003282.htm    
                                Description: Clubbing is changes in the areas under and around the toenails and fingernails that occur with some disorders. The nails also show changes.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Clubbing of the fingers or toes

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003282.htm

# Clubbing of the fingers or toes

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Clubbing is changes in the areas under and around the toenails and fingernails
that occur with some disorders. The nails also show changes.

## Considerations

Common symptoms of clubbing:

    * The nail beds soften. The nails may seem to "float" instead of being firmly attached.
    * The nails form a sharper angle with the cuticle.
    * The last part of the finger may appear large or bulging. It may also be warm and red.
    * The nail curves downward so it looks like the round part of an upside-down spoon. 

Clubbing can develop quickly, often within weeks. It also can go away quickly
when its cause is treated.

## Causes

Lung cancer is the most common cause of clubbing. Clubbing often occurs in
heart and lung diseases that reduce the amount of oxygen in the blood. These
may include:

    * Heart defects that are present at birth (congenital)
    * Chronic lung infections that occur in people with bronchiectasis, cystic fibrosis, or lung abscess
    * Infection of the lining of the heart chambers and heart valves (infectious endocarditis). This can be caused by bacteria, fungi, or other infectious substances
    * Lung disorders in which the deep lung tissues become swollen and then scarred (interstitial lung disease) 

Other causes of clubbing:

    * Celiac disease
    * Cirrhosis of the liver and other liver diseases
    * Dysentery
    * Graves disease
    * Overactive thyroid gland
    * Other types of cancer, including liver, gastrointestinal, Hodgkin lymphoma

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

If you notice clubbing, call your health care provider.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

A person with clubbing often has symptoms of another condition. Diagnosing
that condition is based on:

    * Family history
    * Medical history
    * Physical exam that looks at the lungs and chest 

The provider may ask questions such as:

    * Do you have any trouble breathing?
    * Do you have clubbing of the fingers, toes, or both?
    * When did you first notice this? Do you think it is getting worse?
    * Does the skin ever have a blue color?
    * What other symptoms do you have? 

The following tests may be done:

    * Arterial blood gas
    * Chest CT scan
    * Chest x-ray
    * Echocardiogram
    * Electrocardiogram (ECG)
    * Pulmonary function tests

There is no treatment for the clubbing itself. The cause of clubbing can be
treated, however.

## Alternative Names

Clubbing

## Images

    * ![Clubbing](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1598t.jpg)Clubbing
    * ![Clubbed fingers](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/18127t.jpg)Clubbed fingers

## References

Davis JL, Murray JF. History and physical examinations. In: Broaddus VC, Mason
RJ, Ernst MD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory
Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 16.

Drake WM, Chowdhury TA. General patient examination and differential
diagnosis. In: Glynn M, Drake WM, eds. _Hutchison's Clinical Methods_. 24th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 2.

Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM. Cyanotic
congenital heart lesions: lesions associated with decreased pulmonary blood
flow. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM,
eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2020:chap 457.

## Review Date 5/17/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Finger Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FingerInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Finger
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![Toe Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ToeInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Toe
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

