Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007559.htm    
                                Description: A hammer toe is a toe that stays in a curled or flexed position.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Hammer toe repair

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007559.htm

# Hammer toe repair

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A hammer toe is a toe that stays in a curled or flexed position.

This can occur in more than one toe.

This condition is caused by:

    * Muscle imbalance
    * Rheumatoid arthritis
    * Shoes that do not fit well

## Description

Several kinds of surgery can repair hammer toe. Your bone or foot doctor will
recommend the kind that will work best for you. Some of the surgeries include:

    * Removing parts of the toe bones
    * Cutting or transplanting the tendons of the toes (tendons connect bone to muscle)
    * Fusing the joint together to make the toe straight and no longer able to bend 

After surgery, surgical pins or a wire (Kirschner, or K-wire) are used to hold
the toe bones in place while your toe heals. You will be asked to use a
different shoe to walk to allow your toes to heal. The pins will be removed in
a few weeks.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

When hammer toe starts to develop, you may still be able to straighten your
toe. Over time, your toe may get stuck in a bent position and you can no
longer straighten it. When this happens, painful, hard corns (thick, callused
skin) can build up on the top and bottom of your toe and rub against your
shoe.

Hammer toe surgery is not done just to make your toe look better. Consider
surgery if your hammer toe is stuck in a flexed position and is causing:

    * Pain
    * Irritation
    * Sores
    * Problems finding shoes that fit
    * Skin infections 

Surgery may not be advised if:

    * Treatment with paddings and strapping works
    * You can still straighten your toe
    * Changing to different shoe types can alleviate symptoms 

## Risks

Risks of anesthesia and surgery in general are:

    * Reactions to medicines
    * Breathing problems
    * Bleeding
    * Infection 

Risks of hammer toe surgery are:

    * Poor alignment of the toe
    * Injury to nerves that could cause numbness in your toe
    * Scar from surgery that hurts when it is touched
    * Stiffness in the toe or a toe that is too straight
    * Shortening of the toe
    * Loss of blood supply to the toe

## Before the Procedure

Always tell your health care provider what medicines you are taking, even
medicines, supplements, or herbs you bought without a prescription.

    * You may be asked to stop taking medicines that make it harder for your blood to clot. These include aspirin, ibuprofen, (Advil, Motrin), naproxen (Naprosyn, Aleve), and other drugs.
    * Ask your provider which medicines you should still take on the day of your surgery.
    * If you smoke, try to stop. Ask your provider for help. Smoking can slow healing.
    * Always let your provider know about any cold, flu, fever, or other illness you may have before your surgery.
    * You may be asked not to drink or eat anything for 6 to 12 hours before surgery. 

If you have diabetes, heart disease, or other medical conditions, your surgeon
will ask you to see the provider who treats you for these conditions.

## After the Procedure

Most people go home the same day they have hammer toe surgery. Your provider
will tell you how to take care of yourself at home after surgery.

## Alternative Names

Flexion contracture of the toe

## References

Coughlin MJ. Lesser toe deformities. In: Coughlin MJ, Saltzman CL, Anderson
RB, eds. _Mann's Surgery of the Foot and Ankle._ 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 7.

Murphy GA. Lesser toe abnormalities. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale ST, eds.
_Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2017:chap 83.

Price MD, Chiodo CP. Foot and ankle pain. In: Firestein GS, Budd RC, Gabriel
SE, O'Dell JR, eds. _Kelley and Firestein's Textbook of Rheumatology_. 10th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 49.

Winell JJ, Davidson RS. The foot and toes. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St.
Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 674.

## Review Date 4/9/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Toe Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ToeInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Toe
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

