Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002969.htm    
                                Description: Repair of webbed fingers or toes is surgery to fix webbing of the toes, fingers, or both. The middle and ring fingers or the second and third toes are most often affected. Most often this surgery is done    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Repair of webbed fingers or toes

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002969.htm

# Repair of webbed fingers or toes

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Repair of webbed fingers or toes is surgery to fix webbing of the toes,
fingers, or both. The middle and ring fingers or the second and third toes are
most often affected. Most often this surgery is done when a child is between 6
months and 2 years old.

## Description

Surgery is done the following way:

    * General anesthesiaÂ may be given. This means your child is asleep and won't feel pain. Or regional anesthesia (spinal and epidural) is given to numb the arm and hand.
    * The surgeon marks the areas of the skin that need repair.
    * The skin is cut into flaps, and the soft tissues are cut to separate the fingers or toes.
    * The flaps are sewn into position. If needed, skin taken (graft) from other areas of the body is used to cover places that are missing skin.
    * The hand or foot is then wrapped with a bulky bandage or cast so that it canât move. This allows healing to take place.

Simple webbing of fingers or toes involves only the skin and other soft
tissues. The surgery is more complicated when it involves fused bones, nerves,
blood vessels, and tendons.

## Why the Procedure is Performed

This surgery is advised if the webbing causes problems with appearance, or in
using or movement of the fingers or toes.

## Risks

Risks for anesthesia and surgery in general include:

    * Problems breathing
    * Reactions to medicines
    * Bleeding, blood clot, or infection 

Other possible complications related to this surgery include the following:

    * Damage from not getting enough blood in the hand or foot, due to the cast
    * Loss of skin grafts
    * Stiffness of the fingers or toes
    * Injuries to the blood vessels, tendons, or bones in the fingers 

Call your provider if you notice the following:

    * Fever
    * Fingers that tingle, are numb, or have a bluish tinge
    * Severe pain
    * Swelling 

## Before the Procedure

Tell your child's surgeon what medicines your child is taking. This includes
medicines, supplements, or herbs you bought without a prescription.

    * Ask your child's doctor which medicines you should still give your child on the day of the surgery.
    * Let the doctor know right away when your child has any cold, flu, fever, herpes breakout, or other illness before the surgery.

On the day of the surgery:

    * You will likely be asked not to give your child anything to eat or drink 6 to 12 hours before the procedure.
    * Give your child any medicines the doctor told you to give with a small sip of water.
    * Be sure to arrive at the hospital on time.

## After the Procedure

A hospital stay of 1 to 2 days is usually needed.

Sometimes the cast extends beyond the fingers or toes to protect the repaired
area from injury. Small children who had webbed finger repair may need a cast
that reaches above the elbow.

After your child goes home, call the surgeon if you notice the following:

    * Fever
    * Fingers that tingle, are numb, or have a bluish tinge
    * Severe pain (your child may be fussy or constantly crying)
    * Swelling

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The repair is usually successful. When joined fingers share a single
fingernail, the creation of two normal-looking nails is rarely possible. One
nail will look more normal than the other. Some children require a second
surgery if the webbing is complicated.

The separated fingers will never look or function the same.

## Alternative Names

Web finger repair; Web toe repair; Syndactyly repair;Â Syndactyly release

## Images

    * ![Before and after webbed finger repair](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10034t.jpg)Before and after webbed finger repair
    * ![Syndactyly](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1763t.jpg)Syndactyly
    * ![Repair of webbed fingers - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10286t.jpg)Repair of webbed fingers - series

## References

Kay SP, McCombe DB, Kozin SH. Deformities of the hand and fingers. In: Wolfe
SW, Hotchkiss RN, Pederson WC, Kozin SH, Cohen MS, eds. _Green's Operative
Hand Surgery_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 36.

Mauck BM, Jobe MT. Congenital anomalies of the hand. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH,
Canale ST, eds. _Campbell's Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 79.

## Review Date 8/15/2018

Updated by: C. Benjamin Ma, MD, Professor, Chief, Sports Medicine and Shoulder
Service, UCSF Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, San Francisco, CA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Finger Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FingerInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Finger
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![Toe Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ToeInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Toe
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

