Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003289.htm    
                                Description: Webbing of the fingers or toes is called syndactyly. It refers to the connection of 2 or more fingers or toes. Most of the time, the areas are connected only by skin. In rare cases, the bones may fuse    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Webbing of the fingers or toes

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003289.htm

# Webbing of the fingers or toes

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Webbing of the fingers or toes is called syndactyly. It refers to the
connection of 2 or more fingers or toes. Most of the time, the areas are
connected only by skin. In rare cases, the bones may fuse together.

## Considerations

Syndactyly is often found during a child's health exam. In its most common
form, webbing occurs between the 2nd and 3rd toes. This form is often
inherited and is not unusual. Syndactyly can also occur along with other birth
defects involving the skull, face, and bones.

The web connections most often go up to the first joint of the finger or toe.
However, they can run the length of the finger or toe.

"Polysyndactyly" describes both webbing and the presence of an extra number of
fingers or toes.

## Causes

More common causes include:

    * Down syndrome
    * Hereditary syndactyly 

Very rare causes include:

    * Apert syndrome
    * Carpenter syndrome
    * Cornelia de Lange syndrome
    * Pfeiffer syndrome
    * Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome
    * Use of the medicine hydantoin during pregnancy (fetal hydantoin effect) 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

This condition is normally discovered at birth while the baby is in the
hospital.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about the
child's medical history. Questions may include:

    * Which fingers (toes) are involved? 
    * Have any other family members had this problem?
    * What other symptoms or abnormalities are present? 

An infant with webbing may have other symptoms that together may be signs of 1
syndrome or condition. That condition is diagnosed based on a family history,
medical history, and physical exam.

The following tests may be done:

    * Chromosome studies 
    * Lab tests to check for certain proteins (enzymes) and metabolic problems 
    * X-rays 

Surgery may be done to separate the fingers or toes.

## Alternative Names

Syndactyly; Polysyndactyly

## References

Carrigan RB. The upper limb. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor
NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 681.

Jones KL, Jones MC, Del Campo M. Craniosynostosis syndromes. In: Jones KL,
Jones MC, Del Campo M, eds. _Smith's Recognizable Patterns of Human
Malformation_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:530-559.

## Review Date 10/18/2017

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Finger Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FingerInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Finger
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![Toe Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ToeInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Toe
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

