Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003971.htm    
                                Description: A program of bowel retraining, Kegel exercises, or biofeedback therapy may be used by people to help improve their bowel movements.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bowel retraining

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003971.htm

# Bowel retraining

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A program of bowel retraining, Kegel exercises, or biofeedback therapy may be
used by people to help improve their bowel movements.

## Information

Problems that benefit from bowel retraining may help include:

    * Fecal incontinence, which is the loss of bowel control, causing you to pass stool unexpectedly. This can range from sometimes leaking a small amount of stool and passing gas, to not being able to control bowel movements.
    * Severe constipation.

These problems may be caused by:

    * Brain and nerve problems (such as from multiple sclerosis)
    * Emotional problems
    * Spinal cord damage
    * Previous surgery
    * Childbirth
    * Overuse of laxatives 

The bowel program includes several steps to help you have regular bowel
movements. Most people are able to have regular bowel movements within a few
weeks. Some people will need to use laxatives along with bowel retraining.
Your health care provider can tell you if you need to take these medicines and
which ones are safe for you.

You will need a physical exam before you start a bowel training program. This
will allow your provider to find the cause of the fecal incontinence.
Disorders that can be corrected such as fecal impaction or infectious diarrhea
can be treated at that time. The provider will use your history of bowel
habits and lifestyle as a guide for setting new bowel movement patterns.

DIET

Making the following changes to your diet will help you have regular, soft,
bulky stools:

    * Eat high-fiber foods such as whole-wheat grains, fresh vegetables, and beans.
    * Use products containing psyllium, such as Metamucil, to add bulk to the stools.
    * Try to drink 2 to 3 liters of fluid a day (unless you have a medical condition that requires you to restrict your fluid intake). 

BOWEL TRAINING

You can use digital stimulation to trigger a bowel movement:

    * Insert a lubricated finger into the anus. Move it in a circle until the sphincter muscle relaxes. This may take a few minutes.
    * After you have done the stimulation, sit in a normal position for a bowel movement. If you are able to walk, sit on the toilet or bedside commode. If you are confined to the bed, use a bedpan. Get into as close to a sitting position as possible. If you are unable to sit, lie on your left side.
    * Try to get as much privacy as you can. Some people find that reading while sitting on the toilet helps them relax.
    * If you DO NOT have a bowel movement within 20 minutes, repeat the process.
    * Try to contract the muscles of the abdomen and bear down while releasing the stool. You may find it helpful to bend forward while bearing down. This increases the pressure within the abdomen and helps empty the bowel.
    * Perform stimulation with your finger every day until you start to have a regular pattern of bowel movements.
    * You can also stimulate bowel movements by using a suppository (glycerin or bisacodyl) or a small enema. Some people find it helpful to drink warm prune juice or fruit nectar. 

Keeping to a regular pattern is very important for a bowel retraining program
to succeed. Set a regular time for daily bowel movements. Choose a time that
is convenient for you. Keep in mind your daily schedule. The best time for a
bowel movement is 20 to 40 minutes after a meal, because eating stimulates
bowel activity.

Most people are able to establish a regular routine of bowel movements within
a few weeks.

KEGEL EXERCISES

Exercises to strengthen the rectal muscles may help with bowel control in
people who have an incompetent rectal sphincter. Kegel exercises that
strengthen pelvic and rectal muscle tone can be used for this. These exercises
were first developed to control incontinence in women after childbirth.

To be successful with Kegel exercises, use the proper technique and stick to a
regular exercise program. Talk with your provider for instructions about how
to do these exercises.

BIOFEEDBACK

Biofeedback gives you sound or visual feedback about a bodily function. In
people with fecal incontinence, biofeedback is used to strengthen the rectal
sphincter.

A rectal plug is used to detect the strength of the rectal muscles. A
monitoring electrode is placed on the abdomen. The rectal plug is then
attached to a computer monitor. A graph displaying rectal muscle contractions
and abdominal contractions will show up on the screen.

To use this method, you will be taught how to squeeze the rectal muscle around
the rectal plug. The computer display guides you to make sure you are doing it
correctly. Your symptoms should begin to improve after 3 sessions.

## Alternative Names

Fecal incontinence exercises; Neurogenic bowel - bowel retraining;
Constipation - bowel retraining; Obstipation - bowel retraining; Bowel
incontinence - bowel retraining

## References

Andrews JM, Brierley SM, Blackshaw LA. Small intestine motor and sensory
function and dysfunction. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds.
_Sleisenger & Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 99.

Camilleri M. Disorders of gastrointestinal motility. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 136.

Lembo AJ. Constipation. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds.
_Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 19.

## Review Date 6/21/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bowel
Incontinence](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BowelIncontinence_thumb.jpg)Bowel
Incontinence _Read more_

![Bowel Movement](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BowelMovement_thumb.jpg)Bowel
Movement _Read more_

![Constipation](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Constipation_thumb.jpg)Constipation
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

