Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001570.htm    
                                Description: If a child over 4 years of age has been toilet trained, and still passes stool and soils clothes, it is called encopresis. The child may or may not be doing this on purpose.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Encopresis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001570.htm

# Encopresis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

If a child over 4 years of age has been toilet trained, and still passes stool
and soils clothes, it is called encopresis. The child may or may not be doing
this on purpose.

## Causes

The child may haveÂ constipation. The stool is hard, dry, and stuck in the
colon (called fecal impaction). The child then passes only wet or almost
liquid stool that flows around the hard stool. It may leak out during the day
or night.

Other causes may include:

    * Not toilet training the child
    * StartingÂ toilet training when the child was too young
    * Emotional problems, such as oppositional defiant disorderÂ or conduct disorder

Whatever the cause, the child may feel shame, guilt, or low self-esteem, and
may hide signs of encopresis.

Factors that may increase the risk of encopresis:

    * Chronic constipation
    * Low socioeconomic status

Encopresis is much more common in boys than in girls. It tends to go away as
the child gets older.

## Symptoms

Symptoms can include any of the following:

    * Being unable to hold stool before getting to a toilet (bowel incontinence)
    * Passing stool in inappropriate places (as in the child's clothes)
    * Keeping bowel movements a secret
    * Having constipation and hard stools
    * Passing a very large stool sometimes that almost blocks the toilet
    * Loss of appetite
    * Urine retention
    * Refusal on sit on toilet
    * Refusal to take medicines
    * Bloating sensation or pain in the abdomen

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider may feel the stool stuck in the child's rectum (fecal
impaction). An x-ray of the child's belly may show impacted stool in the
colon.

The provider may perform an examination of the nervous system to rule out a
spinal cord problem.

Other tests may include:

    * Urinalysis
    * Urine culture
    * Thyroid function tests
    * Celiac screening tests
    * Serum calcium test
    * Serum electrolytes test

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to:

    * Prevent constipation
    * Keep good bowel habits 

It is best for parents to support, rather than criticize or discourage the
child.

Treatments may include any of the following:

    * Giving the child laxatives or enemas to remove dry, hard stool.
    * Giving the child stool softeners.
    * Having the child eat a diet high in fiber (fruits, vegetables, whole grains) and drink plenty of fluids to keep the stools soft and comfortable.
    * Taking flavored mineral oil for a short period of time. This is only a short-term treatment because mineral oil interferes with the absorption of calcium and vitamin D.
    * Seeing a pediatric gastroenterologist when these treatments are not enough. The doctor may use biofeedback, or teach the parents and child how to manage encopresis.
    * Seeing a psychotherapist to help the child deal with associated shame, guilt, or loss of self-esteem.

For encopresis without constipation, the child may need a psychiatric
evaluation to find the cause.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most children respond well to treatment. Encopresis often recurs, so some
children need ongoing treatment.

## Possible Complications

If not treated, the child may have low self-esteem and problems making and
keeping friends. Other complications may include:

    * Chronic constipation
    * Urinary Incontinence

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your provider if a child is over 4 years old and
has encopresis.

## Prevention

Encopresis can be prevented by:

    * Toilet training your child at the right age and in a positive way.
    * Talking to your provider about things you can do to help your child if your child shows signs of constipation, such as dry, hard, or infrequent stools.

## Alternative Names

Soiling; Incontinence - stool; Constipation - encopresis; Impaction -
encopresis

## References

Houssayni S. Encopresis. In: Kellerman RD, Bope ET, eds. _Conn's Current
Therapy 2018_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2018:1176-1178.

Marcdante KJ, Kliegman RM. Digestive system assessment. In: Marcdante KJ,
Kliegman RM, eds.Â _Nelson Essentials of Pediatrics_. 8th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 126.

Noe J. Constipation. In: Kliegman RM, Lye PS, Bordini BJ, Toth H, Basel D,
eds. _Nelson Pediatric Symptom-Based Diagnosis_. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2018:chap 16.

## Review Date 8/5/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bowel
Incontinence](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BowelIncontinence_thumb.jpg)Bowel
Incontinence _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

