Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003135.htm    
                                Description: Bowel incontinence is the loss of bowel control, causing you to pass stool unexpectedly. This can range from sometimes leaking a small amount of stool and passing gas, to not being able to control bowel    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bowel incontinence

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003135.htm

# Bowel incontinence

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Bowel incontinence is the loss of bowel control, causing you to pass stool
unexpectedly. This can range from sometimes leaking a small amount of stool
and passing gas, to not being able to control bowel movements.

Urinary incontinence is when you are not able to control passing urine. It is
not covered in this article.

## Considerations

In adults age 65 and older, women tend to have problems with bowel control
more often than men.

Children who have problems with leakage due to toilet training problems or
constipation may have encopresis.

The rectum, anus, pelvic muscles, and nervous system must work together to
control bowel movements. If there is a problem with any of these, it can cause
incontinence. You must also be able to recognize and respond to the urge to
have a bowel movement.

Many people feel embarrassed about bowel incontinence and may not tell their
health care provider. But incontinence can be treated. So you should tell your
provider if you are having problems. Proper treatment can help most people
gain control of their bowels. Exercises to make the anal and pelvic muscles
stronger can help the bowels work properly.

## Causes

Reasons people have bowel incontinence include:

    * Ongoing (chronic) constipation. This causes the anus muscles and intestines to stretch and weaken, leading to diarrhea and stool leakage.
    * Fecal impaction. It is most often caused by chronic constipation. This leads to a lump of stool that partly blocks the large intestine.
    * Long-term laxative use.
    * Colectomy or bowel surgery.
    * Not sensing that it's time to have a bowel movement.
    * Emotional problems.
    * Gynecological, prostate, or rectal surgery.
    * Injury to the anal muscles due to childbirth (in women).
    * Nerve or muscle damage (from injury, tumor, or radiation).
    * Severe diarrhea that causes leakage.
    * Severe hemorrhoids or rectal prolapse.
    * Stress of being inÂ an unfamiliar environment.

## Home Care

Often, simple changes may help reduce bowel incontinence. Your provider may
suggest one or more of these treatments.

 **Diet.** Track the foods you eat to see if any types of foods cause
problems. Foods that may lead to incontinence in some people include:

    * Alcohol
    * Caffeine
    * Dairy products (in people who are unable to digest lactose, a sugar found in most dairy products)
    * Fatty, fried, or greasy foods
    * Spicy foods
    * Cured or smoked meats
    * Sweeteners such as fructose, mannitol, sorbitol, and xylitol 

**Fiber.** Adding bulk to your diet may thicken loose stool. To increase
fiber:

    * Eat more whole grains. Aim for 30 grams of fiber a day. Read food labels to see how much fiber is in breads, cereals, and other foods.
    * Use products such as Metamucil that have a type of fiber called psyllium, which adds bulk to stools. 

**Bowel retraining and pelvic floor exercises.** These methods can help you
control your anal sphincter muscle when you have a bowel movement. Your
provider can show you exercises to strengthen the pelvic floor and anal
muscles. Bowel retraining involves trying to have a bowel movement at certain
times of the day.

Some people can't tell when it's time to have a bowel movement. Sometimes they
can't move well enough to safely get to the bathroom on their own. These
people need special care. They may become used to not getting to the toilet
when it's time to have a bowel movement. To prevent this problem, help them
get to the toilet after meals and when they feel the urge. Also, make sure the
bathroom is safe and comfortable.

Using special pads or undergarments can help an incontinent person feel safe
when they leave home. You can find these products in pharmacies and in many
other stores.

SURGERY

If treatment does not work, surgery may help correct the problem. There are
several types of procedures. The choice of surgery is based on the cause of
the incontinence and the person's general health.

 **Rectal sphincter repair.** This surgery may help people whose anal muscle
ring (sphincter) isn't working well due to injury or aging. The anal muscles
are reattached to tighten the sphincter and help the anus close more
completely.

 **Gracilis muscle transplant.** In people who have lost nerve function in the
anal sphincter, gracilis muscle transplants may help. The gracilis muscle is
taken from the inner thigh. It is put around the sphincter to help tighten the
sphincter muscle.

 **Artificial bowel sphincter.** The artificial sphincter consists of 3 parts:
a cuff that fits around the anus, a pressure-regulating balloon, and a pump
that inflates the cuff.

During surgery, the artificial sphincter is placed around the rectal
sphincter. The cuff stays inflated to maintain continence. You have a bowel
movement by deflating the cuff. The cuff will automatically re-inflate in 10
minutes.

 **Sacral nerve stimulator.** A device can be put inside the body to stimulate
the nerves that maintain continence.

 **Fecal diversion.** Sometimes, this procedure is performed in people who are
not helped by other therapies. The large intestine is attached to an opening
in the abdominal wall called a colostomy. Stool passes through this opening to
a special bag. You will need to use a colostomy bag to collect stool most of
the time.

 **Injection treatment.** This procedure injects a thick gel (Solesta) into
the anal sphincter to bulk it up.

If treatment does not get rid of bowel incontinence, you can use special fecal
collection devices to contain the stool and protect your skin from breakdown.
These devices have a drainable pouch attached to an adhesive wafer. The wafer
has a hole cut through the center, which fits over the opening to the anus.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Report any problems with incontinence to your provider. Call your provider if:

    * A child who has been toilet trained has any stool incontinence
    * An adult has stool incontinence
    * You have skin irritation or sores as a result of bowel incontinence
    * You have severe diarrhea 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will take your medical history. Be sure to tell your provider
about all the prescription and over-the-counter medicines you take. Taking
antacids or laxatives can cause bowel incontinence, particularly in older
people.

Your provider will also perform a physical exam, focusing onÂ your stomach
area and rectum. Your provider will insert a lubricated finger intoÂ your
rectum toÂ check sphincter tone andÂ anal reflexes, and to look for any
problems.

Diagnostic tests may include:

    * Barium enema
    * Blood tests 
    * Colonoscopy 
    * Electromyography (EMG) 
    * Rectal or pelvic ultrasound
    * Stool culture
    * Test of anal sphincter tone (anal manometry) 
    * X-ray procedure using a special dye to evaluate how well the sphincter contracts (balloon sphincterogram) 
    * X-ray procedure using a special dye to see the bowel while you have a bowel movement (defecography)

## Alternative Names

Uncontrollable passage of feces; Loss of bowel control; Fecal incontinence;
Incontinence - bowel

## Patient Instructions

    * Preventing pressure ulcers

## Images

    * ![Digestive system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1090t.jpg)Digestive system
    * ![Inflatable artificial sphincter](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9439t.jpg)Inflatable artificial sphincter

## References

Madoff RD. Diseases of the rectum and anus. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 145.

Rao SSC. Fecal incontinence. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds.
_Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 18.

## Review Date 10/25/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bowel
Incontinence](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BowelIncontinence_thumb.jpg)Bowel
Incontinence _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

