Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007213.htm    
                                Description: A bruise is an area of skin discoloration. A bruise occurs when small blood vessels break and leak their contents into the soft tissue beneath the skin.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bruise

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007213.htm

# Bruise

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A bruise is an area of skin discoloration. A bruise occurs when small blood
vessels break and leak their contents into the soft tissue beneath the skin.

## Considerations

There are three types of bruises:

    * Subcutaneous -- beneath the skin
    * Intramuscular -- within the belly of the underlying muscle
    * Periosteal -- bone bruise

Bruises can last from days to months.Â A bone bruise is the most severe and
painful.

## Causes

Bruises are often caused by falls, sports injuries, car accidents, or blows
received from other people or objects.

If you take a blood thinner, such as aspirin, warfarin (Coumadin, Jantoven),
dabigatran (Pradaxa), rivaroxaban (Xarelto), apixaban (Eliquis), or
clopidogrel (Plavix), you are likely to bruise more easily.

## Symptoms

Main symptoms are pain, swelling, and skin discoloration. The bruise begins as
a pinkish red color that can be very tender to touch. It is often difficult to
use the muscle that has been bruised. For example, a deep thigh bruise is
painful when you walk or run.

Eventually, the bruise changes to a bluish color, then greenish-yellow, and
finally returns to the normal skin color as it heals.

## First Aid

    * Place ice on the bruise to help it heal faster and to reduce swelling. Wrap the ice in a clean towel. Do not place ice directly on the skin. Apply the ice for up to 15 minutes each hour.
    * Keep the bruised area raised above the heart, if possible. This helps keep blood from pooling in the bruised tissue.
    * Try to rest the bruised body part by not overworking your muscles in that area.
    * If needed, take acetaminophen (Tylenol) to help reduce pain.

In the rare case of compartment syndrome, surgery is often done to relieve the
extreme buildup of pressure. Compartment syndrome results from increased
pressure on the soft tissues and structures beneath the skin. It can decrease
the supply of blood and oxygen to the tissues.

## DO NOT

    * Do notÂ try to drain the bruise with a needle. 
    * Do notÂ continue running, playing, or otherwise using the painful, bruised part of your body. 
    * Do notÂ ignore the pain or swelling.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider right away if you feel extreme pressure in a
bruised part of your body, especially if the area is large or very painful.
This may be due to compartment syndrome, and can be life-threatening. You
should receive emergency care.

Also call your provider if:

    * You are bruising without any injury, fall, or other reason.
    * There are signs of infection around the bruised area including streaks of redness, pus or other drainage, or fever.

## Prevention

Because bruises are usually the direct result of an injury, the following are
important safety recommendations:

    * Teach children how to be safe.
    * Be mindful to avoid falls around the house. For example, be careful when climbing on ladders or other objects. Avoid standing or kneeling on counter tops.
    * Wear seat belts in motor vehicles.
    * Wear proper sports equipment to pad those areas most frequently bruised, such as thigh pads, hip guards, and elbow pads in football and hockey. Wear shin guards and knee pads in soccer and basketball.

## Alternative Names

Contusion; Hematoma

## Images

    * ![Bone bruise](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19649t.jpg)Bone bruise
    * ![Muscle bruise](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19675t.jpg)Muscle bruise
    * ![Skin bruise](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19690t.jpg)Skin bruise
    * ![Bruise healing - series](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19584t.jpg)Bruise healing - series

## References

Buttaravoli P, Leffler SM. Contusion (bruise). In: Buttaravoli P, Leffler SM,
eds. _Minor Emergencies_. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2012:chap 137.

Cameron P. Trauma. In: Cameron P, Jelinek G, Kelly A-M, Brown A, Little M,
eds. _Textbook of Adult Emergency Medicine_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Churchill Livingstone; 2015:71-162.

## Review Date 5/13/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bruises](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Bruises_thumb.jpg)Bruises _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

