Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000341.htm    
                                Description: Bulimia is an eating disorder in which a person has regular episodes of eating a very large amount of food (bingeing) during which the person feels a loss of control over eating. The person then uses different    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bulimia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000341.htm

# Bulimia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Bulimia is an eating disorder in which a person has regular episodes of eating
a very large amount of food (bingeing) during which the person feels a loss of
control over eating. The person then uses different ways, such as vomiting or
laxatives (purging), to prevent weight gain.

Many people with bulimia also have anorexia.

## Causes

Many more women than men have bulimia. The disorder is most common in teenage
girls and young women. The person usually knows that her eating pattern is
abnormal. She may feel fear or guilt with the binge-purge episodes.

The exact cause of bulimia is unknown. Genetic, psychological, family,
society, or cultural factors may play a role. Bulimia is likely due to more
than one factor.

## Symptoms

With bulimia, eating binges may occur as often as several times a day for many
months. The person often eats large amounts of high-calorie foods, usually in
secret. During these episodes, the person feels a lack of control over the
eating.

Binges lead to self-disgust, which causes purging to prevent weight gain.
Purging may include:

    * Forcing oneself to vomit
    * Excessive exercise
    * Using laxatives, enemas, or diuretics (water pills) 

Purging often brings a sense of relief.

People with bulimia are often at a normal weight, but they may see themselves
as being overweight. Because the person's weight is often normal, other people
may not notice this eating disorder.

Symptoms that other people can see include:

    * Spending a lot of time exercising
    * Suddenly eating large amounts of food or buying large amounts of food that disappear right away
    * Regularly going to the bathroom right after meals
    * Throwing away packages of laxatives, diet pills, emetics (drugs that cause vomiting), or diuretics 

## Exams and Tests

A dental exam may show cavities or gum infections (such as gingivitis). The
enamel of the teeth may be worn away or pitted because of too much exposure to
the acid in vomit.

A physical exam may also show:

    * Broken blood vessels in the eyes (from the strain of vomiting)
    * Dry mouth
    * Pouch-like look to the cheeks 
    * Rashes and pimples
    * Small cuts and calluses across the tops of the finger joints from forcing oneself to vomit

Blood tests may show an electrolyte imbalance (such as low potassium level) or
dehydration.

## Treatment

People with bulimia rarely have to go to the hospital, unless they:

    * Have anorexia
    * Have major depression
    * Need medicines to help them stop purging 

Most often, a stepped approach is used to treat bulimia. Treatment depends on
how severe the bulimia is, and the person's response to treatments:

    * Support groups may be helpful for mild bulimia without other health problems.
    * Counseling, such as talk therapy and nutritional therapy are the first treatments for bulimia that does not respond to support groups.
    * Medicines that also treat depression, known as selective serotonin-reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are often used for bulimia. Combining talk therapy with SSRIs may help, if talk therapy alone does not work. 

People may drop out of programs if they have unrealistic hopes of being
"cured" by therapy alone. Before a program begins, people should know that:

    * Different therapies will likely be needed to manage this disorder.
    * It is common for bulimia to return (relapse), and this is no cause for despair.
    * The process is painful, and the person and their family will need to work hard. 

## Support Groups

The stress of illness can be eased by joining a support group. Sharing with
others who have common experiences and problems can help you not feel alone.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Bulimia is a long-term illness. Many people will still have some symptoms,
even with treatment.

People with fewer medical complications of bulimia and those willing and able
to take part in therapy have a better chance of recovery.

## Possible Complications

Bulimia can be dangerous. It may lead to serious health problems over time.
For example, vomiting over and over can cause:

    * Stomach acid in the esophagus (the tube that moves food from the mouth to the stomach). This can lead to permanent damage of this area.
    * Tears in the esophagus.
    * Dental cavities.
    * Swelling of the throat.

Vomiting and overuse of enemas or laxatives can lead to:

    * Your body not having as much water and fluid as it should
    * Low level of potassium in the blood, which may lead to dangerous heart rhythm problems
    * Hard stools or constipation
    * Hemorrhoids
    * Damage of the pancreas

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call for an appointment with your health care provider if you or your child
has symptoms of an eating disorder.

## Alternative Names

Bulimia nervosa; Binge-purge behavior; Eating disorder - bulimia

## Images

    * ![Upper gastrointestinal system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9305t.jpg)Upper gastrointestinal system

## References

American Psychiatric Association. Feeding and eating disorders. In:
_Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders_. 5th ed. Arlington,
VA: American Psychiatric Publishing. 2013:329-354.

Kreipe RE. Eating disorders. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor
NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 28.

Lock J, La Via MC; American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry (AACAP)
Committee on Quality Issues (CQI). Practice parameter for the assessment and
treatment of children and adolescents with eating disorders. _J Am Acad Child
Adolesc Psychiatry_. 2015;54(5):412-425. PMID: 25901778
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25901778.

Tanofsky-Kraff, M. Eating disorders. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 219.

Thomas JJ, Mickley DW, Derenne JL, Klibanski A, Murray HB, Eddy KT. Eating
disorders: evaluation and management. In: Stern TA, Fava M, Wilens TE,
Rosenbaum JF, eds. _Massachusetts General Hospital Comprehensive Clinical
Psychiatry_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 37.

## Review Date 3/26/2018

Updated by: Fred K. Berger, MD, addiction and forensic psychiatrist, Scripps
Memorial Hospital, La Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Eating
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EatingDisorders_thumb.jpg)Eating
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

