Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001538.htm    
                                Description: Pica is a pattern of eating non-food materials, such asÂ dirt or paper.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pica

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001538.htm

# Pica

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pica is a pattern of eating non-food materials, such asÂ dirt or paper.

## Causes

Pica is seen more in young children than adults. Up to one third of children
ages 1Â to 6 have these eating behaviors. It is unclear how many children with
pica intentionally consume dirt (geophagy).

Pica can also occur during pregnancy. In some cases, a lack of certain
nutrients, such as iron and zinc, may trigger the unusual cravings. Pica may
also occur in adults who crave a certain texture in their mouth.

## Symptoms

Children and adults with pica may eat:

    * Animal feces 
    * Clay 
    * Dirt 
    * Hairballs 
    * Ice 
    * Paint 
    * Sand 

This pattern of eating must last for at least 1 month to fit the diagnosis of
pica.

Depending on what is being eaten and how much, symptoms of other problems may
be present, such as:

    * Belly pain, nausea, and bloating caused by blockage in the stomach or intestine
    * Fatigue, behavior problems, school problems and other findings of lead poisoning or poor nutrition

## Exams and Tests

There is no single test for pica. Because pica can occur in people who have
poor nutrition, the health care provider may test blood levels of iron and
zinc.

Blood tests can also be done to test for anemia. Lead levels should always be
checked in children who may have eaten paint or objects covered in lead paint
dust to screen for lead poisoning.

The provider may also test for infection if the person has been eating
contaminated soil or animal waste.

## Treatment

Treatment should first address any missing nutrients or other medical
problems, such as lead poisoning.

Treating pica involves behaviors, the environment, and family education. One
form of treatment associates the pica behavior with negative consequences or
punishment (mild aversion therapy). Then the person gets rewarded for eating
normal foods.

Medicines may help reduce the abnormal eating behavior if pica is part of a
developmental disorder such as intellectual disability.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Treatment success varies. In many cases, the disorder lasts several months and
then disappears on its own. In some cases, it may continue into the teen years
or adulthood, especially when it occurs with developmental disorders.

## Possible Complications

Complications include:

    * Bezoar (a mass of undigestible material trapped inside the body, most often in the stomach)
    * Infection

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you notice that a child (or adult) is eating nonfood
materials.

## Prevention

There is no specific prevention. Getting adequate nutrition may help.

## Alternative Names

Geophagy; Lead poisoning - pica

## References

Ginder GD. Microcytic and hepochromic anemias. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 159.

Katz ER, Kitts RL, DeMaso DR. Rumination and pica. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton
BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 23.

Katzman DK, Kearney SA, Becker AE. Feeding and eating disorders. In: Feldman
M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal
and Liver Disease: Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 9.

## Review Date 3/26/2018

Updated by: Fred K. Berger, MD, addiction and forensic psychiatrist, Scripps
Memorial Hospital, La Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Eating
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EatingDisorders_thumb.jpg)Eating
Disorders _Read more_

![Malnutrition](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Malnutrition_thumb.jpg)Malnutrition
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

