Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003265.htm    
                                Description: Binge eating is an eating disorder in which a person regularly eats unusually large amounts of food. During binge eating, the person also feels a loss of control and is not able to stop eating.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Binge eating disorder

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003265.htm

# Binge eating disorder

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Binge eating is an eating disorder in which a person regularly eats unusually
large amounts of food. During binge eating, the person also feels a loss of
control and is not able to stop eating.

## Causes

The exact cause of binge eating is unknown. Things that may lead to this
disorder include:

    * Genes, such as having close relatives who also have an eating disorder
    * Changes in brain chemicals
    * Depression or other emotions, such as feeling upset or stressed
    * Unhealthy dieting, such as not eating enough nutritious food or skipping meals 

In the United States, binge eating is the most common eating disorder. More
women than men have it. Women are affected as young adults while men are
affected in middle age.

## Symptoms

A person with binge eating disorder:

    * Eats large amounts of food in a short period, for example, every 2 hours.
    * Is not able to control overeating, for example is unable to stop eating or control the amount of food.
    * Eats food very fast each time.
    * Keeps eating even when full (gorging) or until uncomfortably full.
    * Eats even though not hungry.
    * Eats alone (in secret).
    * Feels guilty, disgusted, ashamed, or depressed after eating so much

About two thirds of people who have binge eating disorder are obese.

Binge eating may occur on its own or with another eating disorder, such as
bulimia. People with bulimia eat large amounts of high-calorie foods, often in
secret. After this binge eating, they often force themselves to vomit or take
laxatives, or exercise vigorously.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about your
eating patterns and symptoms.

Blood tests may be done.

## Treatment

The overall goals of treatment are to help you:

    * Lessen and then be able to stop the bingeing incidents.
    * Get to and stay at a healthy weight.
    * Get treated for any emotional problems, including overcoming feelings and managing situations that trigger binge eating.

Eating disorders, such as binge eating, are often treated with psychological
and nutrition counseling.

Psychological counseling is also called talk therapy. It involves talking with
a mental health provider, or therapist, who understands the problems of
persons who binge eat. The therapist helps you recognize the feelings and
thoughts that cause you to binge eat. Then the therapist teaches you how to
change these into helpful thoughts and healthy actions.

Nutrition counseling is also important for recovery. It helps you develop
structured meal plans, healthy eating, and weight management goals.

The health care provider may prescribe antidepressants if you are anxious or
depressed. Medicines to help with weight loss may also be prescribed.

## Support Groups

The stress of illness can be eased by joining a support group. Sharing with
others who have common experiences and problems can help you not feel alone.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Binge eating is a treatable disorder. Long-term talk therapy seems to help the
most.

## Possible Complications

With binge eating, a person often eats unhealthy foods that are high in sugar
and fat, and low in nutrients and protein. This can lead to health problems
such as high cholesterol, type 2 diabetes, or gallbladder disease.

Other possible health problems may include:

    * Heart disease
    * High blood pressure
    * Joint pain
    * Menstrual problemsÂ 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you think you, or someone you care for, might have a
pattern of binge eating or bulimia.

## Alternative Names

Eating disorder - binge eating; Eating - binge; Overeating - compulsive;
Compulsive overeating

## References

American Psychiatric Association. Feeding and eating disorder. In: American
Psychiatric Association. _Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental
Disorders._ 5th ed. Arlington, VA: American Psychiatric Publishing.
2013;329-345.

Kreipe RE, Starr TB. Eating disorders. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ,
Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics._ 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 41.

Lock J, La Via MC; American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry (AACAP)
Committee on Quality Issues (CQI). Practice parameter for the assessment and
treatment of children and adolescents with eating disorders. J _Am Acad Child
Adolesc Psychiatry._ 2015;54(5):412-425. PMID: 25901778
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25901778.

Tanofsky-Kraff, M. Eating disorders. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine._ 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 206.

Thomas JJ, Mickley DW, Derenne JL, Klibanski A, Murray HB, Eddy KT. Eating
disorders. In: Stern TA, Fava M, Wilens TE, Rosenbaum JF, eds. _Massachusetts
General Hospital Comprehensive Clinical Psychiatry._ 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2016:chap 37.

## Review Date 3/26/2018

Updated by: Fred K. Berger, MD, addiction and forensic psychiatrist, Scripps
Memorial Hospital, La Jolla, CA. Internal review and update on 04/15/2019 by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Eating
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EatingDisorders_thumb.jpg)Eating
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

