Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000808.htm    
                                Description: Emotional eating is when you eat food to cope with difficult emotions. Because emotional eating has nothing to do with hunger, it is typical to eat a lot more calories than your body needs or will use.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Break the bonds of emotional eating

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000808.htm

# Break the bonds of emotional eating

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Emotional eating is when you eat food to cope with difficult emotions. Because
emotional eating has nothing to do with hunger, it is typical to eat a lot
more calories than your body needs or will use.

## The Food-Feeling Connection

Food can put a damper on stressful feelings, though the effect is temporary.

Foods high in fat, sugar, and salt can become more appealing when you are
under stress, are in a bad mood, or feel bad about yourself.

Emotional eating often becomes a habit. If you have used food to soothe
yourself in the past, you may crave candy or potato chips anytime you feel
bad. The next time you are upset, it becomes even harder to say no to
unhealthy food.

## What Causes Emotional Eating

Everyone has bad days, but not everyone uses food to get through them. Some
behaviors and thought patterns can increase your chance of becoming an
emotional eater.

    * If you have trouble managing your emotions, you may be more likely to use food for that purpose.
    * Being unhappy with your body may make you more prone to emotional eating. This goes for both men and women.
    * Dieting can put you at risk. If you feel deprived of food, you may be frustrated and tempted to emotionally eat.

## What you can do

**Observe yourself.** Pay attention to your eating patterns and the people or
events that make you want to overeat.

    * Do you eat when you feel angry, depressed, hurt, or otherwise upset?
    * Do you eat in response to certain people or situations?
    * Do certain places or times of day trigger food cravings? 

**Develop new coping skills.** The next time you want to use food for therapy,
think about how else you might deal with the feelings that triggered that
urge. You might:

    * Take a class or read a book on managing stress.
    * Talk about your feelings with a close friend.
    * Go for a walk to clear your head. Your emotions might lose their force with time and space.
    * Give yourself something else to think about, like a hobby, puzzle, or good book. 

**Value yourself.** Getting in touch with your values and strengths can help
you manage bad times without overeating.

    * Write about things you care deeply about and why they matter to you. This may include your family, a social cause, religion, or a sports team.
    * Write about things you have done that make you proud.
    * Spend time doing things you are good at. 

**Eat slowly.** Emotional eating often means you eat mindlessly and lose track
of how much you've taken in. Make yourself slow down and pay attention to the
food you are eating.

    * Put down your fork between bites.
    * Take a moment to taste your food before swallowing.
    * If you indulge in something like cookies or fried chicken, limit the portion size.
    * DO NOT eat in front of the TV or computer. It is too easy to overeat when you are distracted by what is on the screen in front of you. 

**Plan ahead.** If you know a difficult or stressful time is coming up, set
yourself up for healthy eating in advance.

    * Plan healthy meals. Chop vegetables for salad or make a pot of broth-based soup ahead of time so you have hassle-free, filling meals waiting for you.
    * DO NOT go hungry. When you are both hungry and stressed, pizza and other fast foods become much more tempting.
    * Stock your kitchen with healthy snacks like hummus and carrot sticks. 

**Make comfort food healthier.** Look for ways to prepare your favorite dishes
with fewer calories.

    * Use fat-free half-and-half or evaporated skim milk instead of whole milk or cream.
    * Use 2 egg whites in place of 1 whole egg.
    * Replace half the butter with applesauce when baking.
    * Use cooking spray instead of oil or butter for cooking.
    * Use brown or wild rice instead of white rice. 

## When to Contact a Health Professional

Talk to your health care provider if you have any of these symptoms of binge
eating disorder:

    * You often lose control of your eating.
    * You often eat to the point of discomfort.
    * You have intense feelings of shame about your body or your eating.
    * You make yourself vomit after eating.

## Alternative Names

Obesity - emotional eating; Overweight - emotional eating; Diet - emotional
eating; Weight loss - emotional meaning

## References

Cowley DS, Lentz GM. Emotional aspects of gynecology: depression, anxiety,
posttraumatic stress disorder, eating disorders, substance use disorders,
"difficult" patients, sexual function, rape, intimate partner violence, and
grief. In: Lobo RA, Gershenson DM, Lentz GM, Valea FA, eds. _Comprehensive
Gynecology_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 9.

Tanofsky-Kraff M. Eating disorders. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 219.

Thomas JJ, Mickley DW, DerenneJL, Klibanski A, Murray HB, Eddy KT. Eating
disorders: evaluation and management. In: Stern TA, Fava M, Wilens TE,
Rosenbaum JF, eds. _Massachusetts General Hospital Comprehensive Clinical
Psychiatry_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 37.

van Strien T, Ouwens MA, Engel C, de Weerth C. Hunger inhibitory control and
distress-induced emotional eating. _Appetite_. 2014;79:124-133. PMID: 24768894
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24768894.

## Review Date 8/3/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Eating Disorders

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

