Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000362.htm    
                                Description: Anorexia is an eating disorder that causes people lose more weight than is considered healthy for their age and height.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Anorexia

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000362.htm

# Anorexia

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Anorexia is an eating disorder that causes people lose more weight than is
considered healthy for their age and height.

People with this disorder may have an intense fear of weight gain, even when
they are underweight. They may diet or exercise too much or use other ways to
lose weight.

## Causes

The exact causes of anorexia are not known. Many factors may be involved.
Genes and hormones may play a role. Social attitudes that promote very thin
body types may also be involved.

Risk factors for anorexia include:

    * Being more worried about, or paying more attention to, weight and shape
    * Having an anxiety disorder as a child
    * Having a negative self-image
    * Having eating problems during infancy or early childhood
    * Having certain social or cultural ideas about health and beauty
    * Trying to be perfect or overly focused on rules 

Anorexia often begins during the pre-teen or teen years or young adulthood. It
is more common in females, but may also be seen in males.

## Symptoms

A person with anorexia usually:

    * Has an intense fear of gaining weight or becoming fat, even when underweight.
    * Refuses to keep weight at what is considered normal for their age and height (15% or more below the normal weight).
    * Has a body image that is very distorted, be very focused on body weight or shape, and refuse to admit the danger of weight loss.

People with anorexia may severely limit the amount of food they eat. Or they
eat and then make themselves throw up. Other behaviors include:

    * Cutting food into small pieces or moving them around the plate instead of eating
    * Exercising all the time, even when the weather is bad, they are hurt, or their schedule is busy
    * Going to the bathroom right after meals
    * Refusing to eat around other people
    * Using pills to make themselves urinate (water pills, or diuretics), have a bowel movement (enemas and laxatives), or decrease their appetite (diet pills) 

Other symptoms of anorexia may include:

    * Blotchy or yellow skin that is dry and covered with fine hair
    * Confused or slow thinking, along with poor memory or judgment
    * Depression
    * Dry mouth
    * Extreme sensitivity to cold (wearing several layers of clothing to stay warm)
    * Thinning of the bones (osteoporosis)
    * Wasting away of muscle and loss of body fat 

## Exams and Tests

Tests should be done to help find the cause of weight loss, or see what damage
the weight loss has caused. Many of these tests will be repeated over time to
monitor the person.

These tests may include:

    * Albumin
    * Bone density test to check for thin bones (osteoporosis)
    * CBC
    * Electrocardiogram (ECG)
    * Electrolytes
    * Kidney function tests
    * Liver function tests
    * Total protein
    * Thyroid function tests
    * Urinalysis

## Treatment

The biggest challenge in treating anorexia nervosa is helping the person
recognize that they have an illness. Most people with anorexia deny that they
have an eating disorder. They often seek treatment only when their condition
is serious.

Goals of treatment are to restore normal body weight and eating habits. A
weight gain of 1 to 3 pounds (lb) or 0.5 to 1.5 kilograms (kg) per week is
considered a safe goal.

Different programs have been designed to treat anorexia. These may include any
of the following measures:

    * Increasing social activity
    * Reducing the amount of physical activity
    * Using schedules for eating 

To start, a short hospital stay may be recommended. This is followed by a day
treatment program.

A longer hospital stay may be needed if:

    * The person has lost a lot of weight (being below 70% of their ideal body weight for their age and height). For severe and life-threatening malnutrition, the person may need to be fed through a vein or stomach tube.
    * Weight loss continues, even with treatment
    * Medical complications, such as heart problems, confusion, or low potassium levels develop
    * The person has severe depression or thinks about committing suicide 

Care providers who are usually involved in these programs include:

    * Nurse practitioners
    * Physicians
    * Physician assistants
    * Dietitians
    * Mental health care providers 

Treatment is often very difficult. People and their families must work hard.
Many therapies may be tried until the disorder is under control.

People may drop out of programs if they have unrealistic hopes of being
"cured" with therapy alone.

Different kinds of talk therapy are used to treat people with anorexia:

    * Cognitive behavioral therapy (a type of talk therapy), group therapy, and family therapy have all been successful.
    * Goal of therapy is to change person's thoughts or behavior to encourage them to eat in a healthier way. This kind of therapy is more useful for treating younger people who have not had anorexia for a long time.
    * If the person is young, therapy may involve the whole family. The family is seen as a part of the solution, instead of the cause of the eating disorder.
    * Support groups may also be a part of treatment. In support groups, patients and families meet and share what they have been through. 

Medicines such as antidepressants, antipsychotics, and mood stabilizers may
help some people when given as part of a complete treatment program. These
medicines can help treat depression or anxiety. Although medicines may help,
none has been proven to decrease the desire to lose weight.

## Support Groups

The stress of illness can be eased by joining a support group. Sharing with
others who have common experiences and problems can help you not feel alone.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Anorexia is a serious condition that can be life threatening. Treatment
programs can help people with the condition return to a normal weight. But it
is common for the disease to return.

Women who develop this eating disorder at an early age have a better chance of
recovering completely. Most people with anorexia will continue to prefer a
lower body weight and be very focused on food and calories.

Weight management may be hard. Long-term treatment may be needed to stay at a
healthy weight.

## Possible Complications

Anorexia can be dangerous. It may lead to serious health problems over time,
including:

    * Bone weakening
    * Decrease in white blood cells, which leads to increased risk of infection
    * A low potassium level in the blood, which may cause dangerous heart rhythms
    * Severe lack of water and fluids in the body (dehydration)
    * Lack of protein, vitamins, minerals, and other important nutrients in the body (malnutrition)
    * Seizures due to fluid or sodium loss from repeated diarrhea or vomiting
    * Thyroid gland problems
    * Tooth decay 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Talk to your health care provider if someone you care about is:

    * Too focused on weight
    * Over-exercising
    * Limiting the food he or she eats
    * Very underweight 

Getting medical help right away can make an eating disorder less severe.

## Alternative Names

Eating disorder - anorexia nervosa

## Images

    * ![myPlate](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1055t.jpg)myPlate

## References

American Psychiatric Association. Feeding and eating disorders. In: American
Psychiatric Association. _Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental
Disorders_. 5th ed. Arlington, VA: American Psychiatric Publishing.
2013;329-345.

Kreipe RE. Eating disorders. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor
NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 28.

Lock J, La Via MC; American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry (AACAP)
Committee on Quality Issues (CQI). Practice parameter for the assessment and
treatment of children and adolescents with eating disorders. _J Am Acad Child
Adolesc Psychiatry_. 2015;54(5):412-425. PMID 25901778
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25901778.

Tanofsky-Kraff M. Eating disorders. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 219.

Thomas JJ, Mickley DW, Derenne JL, Klibanski A, Murray HB, Eddy KT. Eating
disorders: evaluation and management. In: Stern TA, Fava M, Wilens TE,
Rosenbaum JF, eds. _Massachusetts General Hospital Comprehensive Clinical
Psychiatry_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 37.

## Review Date 3/26/2018

Updated by: Fred K. Berger, MD, addiction and forensic psychiatrist, Scripps
Memorial Hospital, La Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Eating
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EatingDisorders_thumb.jpg)Eating
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

