Link: https://medlineplus.gov/carbohydratemetabolismdisorders.html    
                                Description: Carbs include sugar, starch, and fiber. Some disorders affect how your body uses these nutrients, causing health problems. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Carbohydrate Metabolism Disorders

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/carbohydratemetabolismdisorders.html

#  Carbohydrate Metabolism Disorders

On this page

### Basics

  * Summary

### Learn More

  * Specifics
  * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

  * No links available

### Research

  * Clinical Trials
  * Journal Articles

### Resources

  * No links available

### For You

  * Children

## Summary

Metabolism is the process your body uses to make energy from the food you eat.
Food is made up of proteins, carbohydrates, and fats. Chemicals in your
digestive system (enzymes) break the food parts down into sugars and acids,
your body's fuel. Your body can use this fuel right away, or it can store the
energy in your body tissues. If you have a metabolic disorder, something goes
wrong with this process.

Carbohydrate metabolism disorders are a group of metabolic disorders. Normally
your enzymes break carbohydrates down into glucose (a type of sugar). If you
have one of these disorders, you may not have enough enzymes to break down the
carbohydrates. Or the enzymes may not work properly. This causes a harmful
amount of sugar to build up in your body. That can lead to health problems,
some of which can be serious. Some of the disorders are fatal.

These disorders are inherited. Newborn babies get screened for many of them,
using blood tests. If there is a family history of one of these disorders,
parents can get genetic testing to see whether they carry the gene. Other
genetic tests can tell whether the fetus has the disorder or carries the gene
for the disorder.

Treatments may include special diets, supplements, and medicines. Some babies
may also need additional treatments, if there are complications. For some
disorders, there is no cure, but treatments may help with symptoms.

## Specifics

  * Diabetes: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * Galactosemia (American Liver Foundation)
  * Hunter Syndrome (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
  * Hurler Syndrome (National Marrow Donor Program)
  * MPS and ML (National MPS Society)
  * Mucopolysaccharidoses ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke) \- Short Summary
  * Mucopolysaccharidoses ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke) Also in Spanish
  * Pompe Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
  * Type I Glycogen Storage Disease (American Liver Foundation)

## Genetics

  * Genetics Home Reference: alpha-mannosidosis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: beta-mannosidosis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: essential pentosuria ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: fucosidosis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: galactosemia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: galactosialidosis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: GLUT1 deficiency syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: glycogen storage disease type 0 ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: glycogen storage disease type I ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: glycogen storage disease type III ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: glycogen storage disease type IV ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: glycogen storage disease type IX ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: glycogen storage disease type V ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: glycogen storage disease type VI ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: glycogen storage disease type VII ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: hereditary fructose intolerance ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: lactate dehydrogenase deficiency ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: mucopolysaccharidosis type I ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: mucopolysaccharidosis type II ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: mucopolysaccharidosis type III ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: mucopolysaccharidosis type IV ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: mucopolysaccharidosis type VI ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: mucopolysaccharidosis type VII ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: phosphoglycerate kinase deficiency ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: phosphoglycerate mutase deficiency ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: Pompe disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: pyruvate dehydrogenase deficiency ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: Schindler disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Clinical Trials

  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Carbohydrate Metabolism, Inborn Errors ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)
  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Mucopolysaccharidoses ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

  * Article: A meta-analysis and systematic review of Leigh syndrome: clinical manifestations, respiratory...
  * Article: Recent advances in understanding and managing malabsorption: focus on microvillus inclusion...
  * Article: Mutation in PHKA2 leading to childhood glycogen storage disease type IXa:...
  * Carbohydrate Metabolism Disorders -- see more articles

## Children

  * Sanfilippo Syndrome (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation)

## Topic Image

![Photograph of a doctor talking to a
patient](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Doctor_talking_to_patient.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

  * Acid mucopolysaccharides
  * Galactose-1-phospate uridyltransferase
  * Galactosemia
  * Hereditary fructose intolerance
  * Hunter syndrome
  * Hurler syndrome
  * McArdle syndrome
  * Morquio syndrome
  * Sanfilippo syndrome
  * Scheie syndrome

  * Von Gierke disease

Show More Show Less

## Related Health Topics

  * Amino Acid Metabolism Disorders
  * Carbohydrates
  * Lactose Intolerance
  * Lipid Metabolism Disorders
  * Metabolic Disorders

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 11 September 2019 Topic last reviewed: 23 August 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

