Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002578.htm    
                                Description: Beta-blockers are a type of drug used to treat high blood pressure and heart rhythm disturbances. They are one of several classes of medicines used to treat the heart and related conditions, and are also    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Beta-blockers overdose

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002578.htm

# Beta-blockers overdose

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Beta-blockers are a type of drug used to treat high blood pressure and heart
rhythm disturbances. They are one of several classes of medicines used to
treat the heart and related conditions, and are also used in the treatment of
thyroid disease, migraine, and glaucoma. These drugs are a common cause of
poisoning.

Beta-blocker overdose occurs when someone takes more than the normal or
recommended amount of this medicine. This can be by accident or on purpose.

This article is for information only. DO NOT use it to treat or manage an
actual overdose. If you or someone you are with overdoses, call your local
emergency number (such as 911), or your local poison center can be reached
directly by calling the national toll-free Poison Help hotline
(1-800-222-1222) from anywhere in the United States.

## Poisonous Ingredient

The specific ingredient that can be poisonousÂ in these drugs varies among the
different drug makers. The main ingredient is a substance that blocks the
effects of a hormone called epinephrine. Epinephrine is also called
adrenaline.

## Where Found

Prescription beta-blockers are sold under various names, including:

    * Acebutolol
    * Atenolol
    * Betaxolol
    * Bisoprolol
    * Carvedilol
    * Esmolol
    * Labetalol
    * Metoprolol
    * Nadolol
    * Sotalol
    * Pindolol
    * Propranolol
    * Timolol 

Other medicines may also contain beta-blockers.

## Symptoms

Below are symptoms of a beta-blocker overdose in different parts of the body.

AIRWAYS AND LUNGS

    * Breathing trouble (shortness of breath, gasping)
    * Wheezing (in people who have asthma) 

EYES, EARS, NOSE, AND THROAT

    * Blurred vision
    * Double vision

HEART AND BLOOD

    * Irregular heartbeat
    * Lightheadedness
    * Low blood pressure
    * Rapid or slow heartbeat
    * Heart failure (shortness of breath and swelling of the legs)
    * Shock (extremely low blood pressure)

NERVOUS SYSTEM

    * Weakness
    * Nervousness
    * Excessive sweating
    * Drowsiness
    * Confusion
    * Convulsions (seizures)
    * Fever
    * Coma (decreased level of consciousness or unresponsiveness) 

Low blood sugar is common in children with this type of overdose, and it can
lead to nervous system symptoms.

## Home Care

Seek medical help right away. Do NOT make the person throw up unless poison
control or a health care provider tells you to do so.

## Before Calling Emergency

Have this information ready:

    * Person's age, weight, and condition
    * Name of medicine (and the ingredients and strength, if known)
    * Time it was swallowed
    * Amount swallowed
    * If the medicine was prescribed for the person

## Poison Control

Your local poison control center can be reached directly by calling the
national toll-free Poison Help hotline (1800-222-1222) from anywhere in the
United States. This national hotline will let you talk to experts in
poisoning. They will give you further instructions.

This is a free and confidential service. All local poison control centers in
the United States use this national number. You should call if you have any
questions about poisoning or poison control. It does NOT need to be an
emergency. You can call for any reason, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

## What to Expect at the Emergency Room

Take the container with you to the hospital, if possible.

The provider will measure and monitor the person's vital signs, including
temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Blood and urine tests
    * Chest x-ray
    * ECG (electrocardiogram, or heart tracing)

Treatment may include:

    * Intravenous fluids (given through a vein)
    * Medicine to treat symptoms and reverse the effect of the drug
    * Activated charcoal
    * Laxatives
    * Pacemaker to the heart for serious heart rhythm disturbances
    * Breathing support, including a tube through the mouth into the lungs and connected to a breathing machine

## Outlook (Prognosis)

A beta-blocker overdose can be very dangerous. It can cause death. If the
person's heart rate and blood pressure can be corrected, survival is likely.
Survival depends on how much and what type of this medicine the person took
and how quickly they receive treatment.

## References

Aronson JK. Beta-adrenoceptor antagonists. In: Aronson JK, ed. _Meyler's Side
Effects of Drugs_. 16th ed. Waltham, MA: Elsevier; 2016:897-927.

Cole JB. Cardiovascular drugs. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M,
eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 147.

## Review Date 6/23/2019

Updated by: Jacob L. Heller, MD, MHA, Emergency Medicine, Emeritus, Virginia
Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Blood Pressure
Medicines](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodPressureMedications_thumb.jpg)Blood
Pressure Medicines _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

