Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000297.htm    
                                Description: You or your child has osteomyelitis. This is a bone infection caused by bacteria or other germs. The infection may have started in another part of the body and spread to the bone.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Osteomyelitis - discharge

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000297.htm

# Osteomyelitis - discharge

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

You or your child has osteomyelitis. This is a bone infection caused by
bacteria or other germs. The infection may have started in another part of the
body and spread to the bone.

At home, follow the health care provider's instructions on self-care and how
to treat the infection. Use the information below as a reminder.

## When You're in the Hospital

If you or your child was in the hospital, the surgeon may have removed some
infection from your bones or drained an abscess.

## What to Expect at Home

The doctor will prescribe medicines (antibiotics) for you or your child to
take at home to kill the infection in the bone. At first, the antibiotics will
likely be given into a vein in the arm, chest, or neck. At some point, the
doctor may switch the medicine to antibiotic pills.

While you or your child is on antibiotics, the provider may order blood tests
to check for signs of toxicity from the medicine.

The medicine will need to be taken for at least 3 to 6 weeks. Sometimes, it
may need to be taken for several months.

## Self-care

If you or your child is getting antibiotics through a vein in the arm, chest,
or neck:

    * A nurse may come to your home to show you how, or to give you or your child the medicine.
    * You will need to learn how to care for the catheter that is inserted into the vein.
    * You or your child may need to go to the doctor's office or a special clinic to receive the medicine.

If the medicine needs to be stored at home, be sure to do it the way your
provider told you to.

You must learn how to keep the area where the IV is clean and dry. You also
need to watch for signs of infection (such as redness, swelling, fever, or
chills).

Make sure you give yourself the medicine at the right time. DO NOT stop the
antibiotics even when you or your child begins to feel better. If all of the
medicine is not taken, or it is taken at the wrong time, the germs may become
harder to treat. The infection may come back.

If you or your child had surgery on the bone, a splint, brace, or sling may
need to be worn to protect the bone. Your provider will tell you whether you
or your child can walk on the leg or use the arm. Follow what your provider
says you or your child can and can't do. If you do too much before the
infection is gone, your bones may get injured.

If you or your child has diabetes, it is very important to keep your or your
child's blood sugar under control.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if:

    * You or your child has a fever of 100.5Â°F (38.0Â°C), or higher, or have chills.
    * You or your child is feeling more tired or ill.
    * The area over the bone is redder or more swollen.
    * You or your child has a new skin ulcer or one that is getting bigger.
    * You or your child has more pain around the bone where the infection is located, or you or your child can no longer put weight on a leg or foot or use your arm or hand.

## Alternative Names

Bone infection - discharge

## Images

    * ![Osteomyelitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9712t.jpg)Osteomyelitis

## References

Berbari EF, Steckelberg JM, Osmon DR. Osteomyelitis. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R,
Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap
106.

Dabov GD. Osteomyelitis. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale ST, eds. _Campbell's
Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 21.

## Read More

    * Osteomyelitis

## Patient Instructions

    * Femur fracture repair - discharge
    * Hip fracture - discharge 

## Review Date 9/22/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Bone Infections

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

