Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007697.htm    
                                Description: Osteomyelitis is a bone infection caused by bacteria or other germs.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Osteomyelitis in children

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007697.htm

# Osteomyelitis in children

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Osteomyelitis is a bone infection caused by bacteria or other germs.

## Causes

A bone infection is most often caused by bacteria. It can also be caused by
fungi or other germs. In children, the long bones of the arms or legs are most
often involved.

When a child has osteomyelitis:

    * Bacteria or other germs may spread to the bone from infected skin, muscles, or tendons next to the bone. This may occur under a skin sore.
    * The infection can start in another part of the body and spread through the blood to the bone.
    * The infection can be caused by an injury that breaks the skin and bone (open fracture). Bacteria can enter the skin and infect the bone.
    * The infection can also start after bone surgery. This is more likely if the surgery is done after an injury, or if metal rods or plates are placed in the bone.

Other risk factors include:

    * Premature birth or delivery complications in newborns
    * Diabetes
    * Poor blood supply
    * Recent injury
    * Sickle cell disease
    * Infection due to a foreign body
    * Pressure ulcers
    * Human bites or animal bites
    * Weak immune system

## Symptoms

Osteomyelitis symptoms include:

    * Bone pain
    * Excessive sweating
    * Fever and chills
    * General discomfort, uneasiness, or ill feeling (malaise)
    * Local swelling, redness, and warmth
    * Pain at the infection site
    * Swelling of the ankles, feet, and legs
    * Refusing to walk (when leg bones are involved)

Infants with osteomyelitis may not have a fever or other signs of illness.
They might avoid moving the infected limb due to pain.

## Exams and Tests

Your child's health care provider will perform a physical examination and ask
about the symptoms your child is having.

Tests that your child's provider may order include:

    * Blood cultures
    * Bone biopsy (the sample is cultured and examined under a microscope)
    * Bone scan
    * Bone x-ray
    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * C-reactive protein (CRP)
    * Erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR)
    * MRI of the bone
    * Needle aspiration of the area of the affected bones

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to stop the infection and reduce damage to the bone
and surrounding tissues.

Antibiotics are given to destroy the bacteria causing the infection:

    * Your child may receive more than one antibiotic at a time.
    * Antibiotics are taken for at least 4 to 6 weeks, often at home through an IV (intravenously, meaning through a vein).

Surgery may be needed to remove dead bone tissue if the child has an infection
that does not go away.

    * If there are metal plates near the infection, they may need to be removed.
    * The open space left by the removed bone tissue may be filled with bone graft or packing material. This promotes the growth of new bone tissue.

If your child was treated in the hospital for osteomyelitis, be sure to follow
the provider's instructions on how to care for your child at home.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

With treatment, the outcome for acute osteomyelitis is usually good.

The outlook is worse for those with long-term (chronic) osteomyelitis.
Symptoms may come and go for years, even with surgery.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your child's provider if:

    * Your child develops symptoms of osteomyelitis
    * Your child has osteomyelitis and the symptoms continue, even with treatment

## Alternative Names

Bone infection - children; Infection - bone - children

## Images

    * ![Osteomyelitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9712t.jpg)Osteomyelitis

## References

Dabov GD. Osteomyelitis. In: Azar FM, Beaty JH, Canale ST, eds. _Campbell's
Operative Orthopaedics_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 21.

Kaplan SL. Osteomyelitis. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF,
eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2016:chap 684.

Krogstad P. Osteomyelitis. In: Cherry JD, Harrison GJ, Kaplan SL, Steinbach
WJ, Hotez PJ, eds. _Feigin and Cherry's Textbook of Pediatric Infectious
Diseases_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 55.

## Review Date 9/22/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bone
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BoneInfections_thumb.jpg)Bone
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

