Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000624.htm    
                                Description: Disseminated tuberculosis is a contagious mycobacterial infection in which mycobacteria have spread from the lungs to other parts of the body through the blood or lymph system.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Disseminated tuberculosis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000624.htm

# Disseminated tuberculosis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Disseminated tuberculosis is a contagious mycobacterial infection in which
mycobacteria have spread from the lungs to other parts of the body through the
blood or lymph system.

## Causes

Tuberculosis (TB) infection can develop after breathing in droplets sprayed
into the air from a cough or sneeze by someone infected with the
_Mycobacterium tuberculosis_ bacterium. The resulting lung infection is called
primary TB.

The usual site of TB is the lungs (pulmonary TB), but other organs can be
involved. In the United States, most people with primaryÂ tuberculosis get
better and have no further evidence of disease. Disseminated TB develops in
the small number of infected people whose immune systems do not successfully
contain the primary infection.

Disseminated disease can occur within weeks of the primary infection.
Sometimes, it does not occur until years after you become infected. You are
more likely to get this type of TB if you have a weakened immune system due to
disease (such as AIDS) or certain medicines. Infants and older adults are also
at higher risk.

Your risk of catching TB increases if you:

    * Are around people who have the disease (such as during overseas travel)
    * Live in crowded or unclean conditions
    * Have poor nutrition 

The following factors can increase the rate of TB infection in a population:

    * Increase in HIV infections
    * Increase in number of homeless people with unstable housing (poor environment and nutrition)
    * The appearance of drug-resistant strains of TB

## Symptoms

DisseminatedÂ tuberculosis can affect many different body areas. Symptoms
depend on the affected areas of the body and can include:

    * Abdominal pain or swelling
    * Chills
    * Cough and shortness of breath
    * Fatigue
    * Fever
    * General discomfort, uneasiness, or ill feeling (malaise)
    * Joint pain
    * Pale skin due to anemia (pallor)
    * Sweating
    * Swollen glands
    * Weight loss

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam. This may show:

    * Swollen liver
    * Swollen lymph nodes
    * Swollen spleen

Tests that may be ordered include:

    * Biopsies and cultures of affected organs or tissues
    * Bronchoscopy for biopsy or culture
    * Chest x-ray
    * CT scan of the affected area
    * Fundoscopy may reveal retinal lesions
    * Interferon-gamma release blood test, such as the QFT-Gold test to test for prior exposure to TB
    * Lung biopsy
    * Mycobacterial culture of bone marrow or blood
    * Pleural biopsy
    * Tuberculin skin test (PPD test)
    * Sputum examination and cultures
    * Thoracentesis

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to cure the infection with medicines that fight the
TB bacteria. Treatment of disseminated TB involves a combination of several
medicines (usually 4). All medicines are continued until lab tests show which
work best.

You may need to take many different pills for 6 months or longer. It is very
important that you take the pills the way your provider instructed.

When people do not take their TB medicines as instructed, the infection can
become much more difficult to treat. The TB bacteria can become resistant to
treatment. This means the medicines no longer work.

When there is concern that a person may not take all the medicines as
directed, a provider may need to watch the person take the prescribed
medicines. This approach is called directly observed therapy. In this case,
medicines may be given 2 or 3 times a week, as prescribed by a provider.

You may need to stay at home or be admitted to a hospital for 2 to 4 weeks to
avoid spreading the disease to others until you are no longer contagious.

Your provider may be required by law to report your TB illness to the local
health department. Your health care team will ensure that you receive the best
care.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most forms of disseminated TB respond well to treatment. The tissue that is
affected, such as the bones or joints, may have permanent damage due to the
infection.

## Possible Complications

Complications of disseminated TB can include:

    * Adult respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS)
    * Liver inflammation
    * Lung failure
    * Return of the disease 

Medicines used to treat TB can cause side effects, including:

    * Changes in vision
    * Orange- or brown-colored tears and urine
    * Rash
    * Liver inflammation

A vision test may be done before treatment so your doctor can monitor any
changes in the health of your eyes.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you know or suspect that you have been exposed to TB.
All forms of TB and exposure need prompt evaluation and treatment.

## Prevention

TB is a preventable disease, even in those who have been exposed to an
infected person. Skin testing for TB is used in high-risk populations or in
people who may have been exposed to TB, such as health care workers.

People who have been exposed to TB should be skin tested immediately and have
a follow-up test at a later date, if the first test is negative.

A positive skin test means you have come into contact with the TB bacteria. It
does not mean that you have active disease or are contagious. Talk to your
doctor about how to prevent getting tuberculosis.

Prompt treatment is extremely important in controlling the spread of TB from
those who have active TB disease to those who have never been infected with
TB.

Some countries with a high incidence of TB give people a vaccination (called
BCG) to prevent TB. The effectiveness of this vaccine is limited and it is not
routinely used in the United States.

People who have had BCG may still be skin tested for TB. Discuss the test
results (if positive) with your provider.

## Alternative Names

Miliary tuberculosis; Tuberculosis - disseminated; Extrapulmonary tuberculosis

## Images

    * ![Tuberculosis in the kidney](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1033t.jpg)Tuberculosis in the kidney
    * ![Tuberculosis in the lung](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1034t.jpg)Tuberculosis in the lung
    * ![Coal worker's lungs - chest x-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1599t.jpg)Coal worker's lungs - chest x-ray
    * ![Tuberculosis, advanced - chest X-rays](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1607t.jpg)Tuberculosis, advanced - chest x-rays
    * ![Miliary tuberculosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17260t.jpg)Miliary tuberculosis
    * ![Erythema multiforme, circular lesions - hands](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1837t.jpg)Erythema multiforme, circular lesions - hands
    * ![Erythema nodosum associated with sarcoidosis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2532t.jpg)Erythema nodosum associated with sarcoidosis
    * ![Circulatory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8747t.jpg)Circulatory system

## References

Ellner JJ. Tuberculosis. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil
Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 324.

Fitzgerald DW, Sterling TR, Haas DW. _Mycobacterium tuberculosis_. In: Bennett
JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and
Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 251.

## Review Date 12/13/2017

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bone
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BoneInfections_thumb.jpg)Bone
Infections _Read more_

![Tuberculosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Tuberculosis_thumb.jpg)Tuberculosis
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

