Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000437.htm    
                                Description: Osteomyelitis is a bone infection. It is mainly caused by bacteria or other germs.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Osteomyelitis

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000437.htm

# Osteomyelitis

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Osteomyelitis is a bone infection. It is mainly caused by bacteria or other
germs.

## Causes

Bone infection is most often caused by bacteria. But it can also be caused by
fungi or other germs. When a person has osteomyelitis:

    * Bacteria or other germs may spread to a bone from infected skin, muscles, or tendons next to the bone. This may occur under a skin sore. 
    * The infection can start in another part of the body and spread to the bone through the blood. 
    * The infection can also start after bone surgery. This is more likely if the surgery is done after an injury or if metal rods or plates are placed in the bone. 

In children, the long bones of the arms or legs are most often involved. In
adults, the feet, spine bones (vertebrae), and hips (pelvis) are most commonly
affected.

Risk factors are:

    * Diabetes
    * Hemodialysis
    * Poor blood supply
    * Recent injury
    * Use of injected illegal drugs 
    * Surgery involving bones
    * Weakened immune system

## Symptoms

Symptoms of osteomyelitis are not specific and vary with age. Main symptoms
include:

    * Bone pain
    * Excessive sweating
    * Fever and chills
    * General discomfort, uneasiness, or ill feeling (malaise)
    * Local swelling, redness, and warmth
    * Open wound that may show pus
    * Pain at the site of infection

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will examine you and ask about your symptoms. The
exam may show bone tenderness and possible swelling and redness in the area
around the bone.

Tests may include:

    * Blood cultures
    * Bone biopsy (the sample is cultured and examined under a microscope)
    * Bone scan
    * Bone x-ray
    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * C-reactive protein (CRP)
    * Erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR)
    * MRI of the bone
    * Needle aspiration of the area of the affected bones 

## Treatment

The goal of treatment is to get rid of the infection and reduce damage to the
bone and surrounding tissues.

Antibiotics are given to destroy the bacteria causing the infection:

    * You may receive more than one antibiotic at a time.
    * Antibiotics are taken for at least 4 to 6 weeks, often at home through an IV (intravenously, meaning through a vein). 

Surgery may be needed to remove dead bone tissue if the above methods fail:

    * If there are metal plates near the infection, they may need to be removed.
    * The open space left by the removed bone tissue may be filled with bone graft or packing material. This promotes resolution of the infection.

Infection that occurs after joint replacement may require surgery. This is
done to remove the replaced joint and infected tissue in the area. A new
prosthesis may be implanted in the same operation. More often, doctors wait
until the antibiotic course is finished and the infection has gone away.

If you have diabetes, it will need to be well controlled. If there are
problems with blood supply to the infected area, such as the foot, surgery may
be needed to improve blood flow and get rid of the infection.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

With treatment, the outcome for acute osteomyelitis is often good.

The outlook is worse for those with long-term (chronic) osteomyelitis.
Symptoms may come and go for years, even with surgery. Amputation may be
needed, especially in people with diabetes or poor blood circulation.

The outlook for people with an infection of a prosthesis depends partly on:

    * The person's health
    * The type of infection
    * Whether the infected prosthesis can be safely removed 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you:

    * Develop symptoms of osteomyelitis
    * Have osteomyelitis that continues even with treatment 

## Alternative Names

Bone infection

## Patient Instructions

    * Osteomyelitis - discharge

## Images

    * ![X-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1057t.jpg)X-ray
    * ![Skeleton](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1115t.jpg)Skeleton
    * ![Osteomyelitis](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9712t.jpg)Osteomyelitis
    * ![Bacteria](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9095t.jpg)Bacteria

## References

Berbari EF, Steckelberg JM, Osmon DR. Osteomyelitis. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R,
Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 106.

Matteson EL, Osmon DR. Infections of bursae, joints, and bones. In: Goldman L,
Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 272.

Raukar NP, Zink BJ. Bone and joint infections. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 128.

## Review Date 2/24/2018

Updated by: Jatin M. Vyas, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor in Medicine, Harvard
Medical School; Assistant in Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease,
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bone
Infections](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BoneInfections_thumb.jpg)Bone
Infections _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

