Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001928.htm    
                                Description: Childhood is a time of rapid growth and change. Children have more well-child visits when they are younger. This is because development is faster during these years.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Well-child visits

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001928.htm

# Well-child visits

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Childhood is a time of rapid growth and change. Children have more well-child
visits when they are younger. This is because development is faster during
these years.

Each visit includes a complete physical exam. At this exam, the health care
provider will check the child's growth and development in order to find or
prevent problems.

The provider will record your child's height, weight, and other important
information. Hearing, vision, and other screening tests will be part of some
visits.

Even if your child is healthy, well-child visits are a good time to focus on
your child's wellness. Talking about ways to improve care and prevent problems
helps keep your child healthy.

## Information

At your well-child visits, you will get information on topics such as:

    * Sleep
    * Safety
    * Childhood diseases
    * What to expect as your child grows 

Write down your questions and concerns and bring them with you. This will help
you get the most out of the visit.

Your provider will pay special attention to how your child is growing compared
to normal developmental milestones. The child's height, weight, and head
circumference are recorded on a growth chart. This chart remains part of the
child's medical record. Talking about your child's growth is a good place to
begin a discussion about your child's general health. Ask your provider about
the body mass index (BMI) curve, which is the most important tool for
identifying and preventing obesity.

Your provider will also talk about other wellness topics such as family
relationship issues, school, and access to community services.

There are several schedules for routine well-child visits. One schedule,
recommended by the American Academy of Pediatrics, is given below.

PREVENTIVE HEALTH CARE SCHEDULE

A visit with a provider _before_ the baby is born can be particularly
important for:

    * First-time parents.
    * Parents with a high-risk pregnancy.
    * Any parent who has questions about issues such as feeding, circumcision, and general child health issues. 

After the baby is born, the next visit should be 2 to 3 days after bringing
the baby home (for breastfed babies) or when the baby is 2 to 4 days old (for
all babies who are released from a hospital before they are 2 days old). Some
providers will delay the visit until the baby is 1 to 2 weeks old for parents
who have had babies before.

After that, it is recommended that visits occur at the following ages (your
provider may have you add or skip visits depending on your child's health or
your parenting experience):

    * By 1 month
    * 2 months
    * 4 months
    * 6 months
    * 9 months
    * 12 months
    * 15 months
    * 18 months
    * 2 years
    * 2 1/2 years
    * 3 years
    * Each year after that until age 21 

Also, you should call or visit a provider any time your baby or child seems
ill or whenever you are worried about your baby's health or development.

RELATED TOPICS

Elements of the physical exam:

    * Auscultation (listening to heart, breath, and stomach sounds)
    * Heart sounds
    * Infantile reflexes and deep tendon reflexes as the child gets older
    * Neonatal jaundice \-- first few visits only
    * Palpation
    * Percussion
    * Standard ophthalmic exam
    * Temperature measurement (see also normal body temperature) 

Immunization information:

    * Immunizations -- general overview
    * Babies and shots
    * Diphtheria immunization (vaccine)
    * DPT immunization (vaccine)
    * Hepatitis A immunization (vaccine)
    * Hepatitis B immunization (vaccine)
    * Hib immunization (vaccine)
    * Human papilloma virus (vaccine)
    * Influenza immunization (vaccine)
    * Meningococcal (meningitis) immunization (vaccine)
    * MMR immunization (vaccine)
    * Pertussis immunization (vaccine)
    * Pneumococcal immunization (vaccine)
    * Polio immunization (vaccine)
    * Rotavirus immunization (vaccine)
    * Tetanus immunization (vaccine)
    * TdaP immunization (vaccine)
    * Varicella (chickenpox) immunization (vaccine)

Nutrition advice:

    * Appropriate diet for age \-- balanced diet
    * Breastfeeding
    * Diet and intellectual development
    * Fluoride in diet
    * Infant formulas
    * Obesity in children 

Growth and development schedules:

    * Infant -- newborn development
    * Toddler development
    * Preschooler development
    * School-age child development
    * Adolescent development
    * Developmental milestones
    * Developmental milestones record -- 2 months
    * Developmental milestones record -- 4 months
    * Developmental milestones record -- 6 months
    * Developmental milestones record -- 9 months
    * Developmental milestones record -- 12 months
    * Developmental milestones record -- 18 months
    * Developmental milestones record -- 2 years
    * Developmental milestones record -- 3 years
    * Developmental milestones record -- 4 years
    * Developmental milestones record -- 5 years

Preparing a child for an office visit is similar to test and procedure
preparation.

Preparation steps differ, depending on the child's age:

    * Infant test/procedure preparation
    * Toddler test/procedure preparation
    * Preschooler test/procedure preparation
    * School-age test/procedure preparation

## Images

    * ![Well baby visits](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/10046t.jpg)Well baby visits

## References

Hagan JF Jr, Navsaria D. Maximizing children's health: screening, anticipatory
guidance, and counseling. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS,
Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 12.

Kelly DP, Natale MJ. Neurodevelopmental and executive function and
dysfunction. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson
KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2020:chap 48.

Kimmel SR, Ratliff-Schaub K. Growth and development. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP,
eds. _Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 22.

## Review Date 3/6/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Baby Health
Checkup](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BabyHealthCheckupII_thumb.jpg)Baby
Health Checkup _Read more_

![Children's
Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Children'sHealth_thumb.jpg)Children's
Health _Read more_

![Health
Checkup](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HealthCheckup_thumb.jpg)Health Checkup
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

