Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003131.htm    
                                Description: Tenesmus is the feeling that you need to pass stools, even though your bowels are already empty. It may involve straining, pain, and cramping.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Tenesmus

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003131.htm

# Tenesmus

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Tenesmus is the feeling that you need to pass stools, even though your bowels
are already empty. It may involve straining, pain, and cramping.

## Considerations

Tenesmus most often occurs with inflammatory diseases of the bowels. These
diseases may be caused by an infection or other conditions.

It can also occur with diseases that affect the normal movements of the
intestines. These diseases are known as motility disorders.

People with tenesmus may push very hard (strain) to try to empty their bowels.
However, they will only pass a small amount of stool.

## Causes

The condition may be caused by:

    * Anorectal abscess
    * Colorectal cancer or tumors
    * Crohn disease
    * Infection of the colon (infectious colitis)
    * Inflammation of the colon or rectum from radiation (radiation proctitis or colitis)
    * Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD)
    * Movement (motility) disorder of the intestines
    * Ulcerative colitis or ulcerative proctitis

## Home Care

Increasing the amount of fiber and fluid in your diet can help ease
constipation.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your health care provider if you continue to have symptoms of tenesmus
that are constant or come and go.

Also call if you have:

    * Abdominal pain
    * Blood in the stool
    * Chills
    * Fever
    * Nausea
    * Vomiting

These symptoms could be a sign of a disease that might be causing the problem.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will examine you and ask questions such as:

    * When did this problem occur? Have you had it before?
    * What symptoms are you having?
    * Have you eaten any raw, new, or unfamiliar foods? Have you eaten at a picnic or large gathering?
    * Do any others in your household have similar problems?
    * What other health problems do you have or have had in the past? 

The physical exam may include a detailed abdominal exam. A rectal exam is
performed in most cases.

Tests that may be done include:

    * Colonoscopy to look at the colon and rectum
    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * CT scan of the abdomen (in rare cases)
    * Proctosigmoidoscopy (an examination of the lower bowel)
    * Stool cultures
    * X-rays of the abdomen 

## Alternative Names

Pain - passing stool; Painful stools; Difficulty passing stool

## Images

    * ![Lower digestive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8735t.jpg)Lower digestive anatomy

## References

Abdelnaby A, Downs JM. Diseases of the anorectum. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS,
Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver
Disease._ 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 129.

Camilleri M. Disorders of gastrointestinal motility. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 136.

Lichtenstein GP. Inflammatory bowel disease. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds.
_Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 141.

Quick CRG, Reed JB, Harper SJF, Saeb-Parsy K, Desakin PJ. Non-acute abdominal
pain and other abdominal symptoms and signs. In: Quick MB, Reed JB, Harper
SJF, Saeb-Parsy K, Deakin PJ, eds. _Essential Surgery: Problems, Diagnosis and
Management_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2014:chap 18.

## Review Date 6/21/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bowel Movement](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BowelMovement_thumb.jpg)Bowel
Movement _Read more_

![Constipation](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Constipation_thumb.jpg)Constipation
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

