Link: https://medlineplus.gov/aminoacidmetabolismdisorders.html    
                                Description: Disorders like phenylketonuria (PKU) and maple syrup urine disease cause problems with how your body uses proteins. Learn more about them.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Amino Acid Metabolism Disorders

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/aminoacidmetabolismdisorders.html

#  Amino Acid Metabolism Disorders

On this page

### Basics

  * Summary
  * Start Here
  * Diagnosis and Tests

### Learn More

  * Specifics
  * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

  * No links available

### Research

  * Clinical Trials
  * Journal Articles

### Resources

  * Find an Expert

### For You

  * No links available

## Summary

Metabolism is the process your body uses to make energy from the food you eat.
Food is made up of proteins, carbohydrates, and fats. Your digestive system
breaks the food parts down into sugars and acids, your body's fuel. Your body
can use this fuel right away, or it can store the energy in your body. If you
have a metabolic disorder, something goes wrong with this process.

One group of these disorders is amino acid metabolism disorders. They include
phenylketonuria (PKU) and maple syrup urine disease. Amino acids are "building
blocks" that join together to form proteins. If you have one of these
disorders, your body may have trouble breaking down certain amino acids. Or
there may be a problem getting the amino acids into your cells. These problems
cause a buildup of harmful substances in your body. That can lead to serious,
sometimes life-threatening, health problems.

These disorders are usually inherited. A baby who is born with one may not
have any symptoms right away. Because the disorders can be so serious, early
diagnosis and treatment are critical. Newborn babies get screened for many of
them, using blood tests.

Treatments may include special diets, medicines, and supplements. Some babies
may also need additional treatments if there are complications.

## Start Here

  * Amino Acid Metabolism Disorders (March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation)
  * Disorders of Amino Acid Metabolism (Merck & Co., Inc.) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

  * Methylmalonic Acid Test (American Association for Clinical Chemistry)
  * Newborn Screening: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

  * Understanding Hyperoxaluria (Oxalosis and Hyperoxaluria Foundation)

## Genetics

  * Genetics Home Reference: 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA lyase deficiency ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: 3-methylcrotonyl-CoA carboxylase deficiency ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: 3-methylglutaconyl-CoA hydratase deficiency ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: alkaptonuria ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: aminoacylase 1 deficiency ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: arginase deficiency ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: arginine:glycine amidinotransferase deficiency ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: argininosuccinic aciduria ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: asparagine synthetase deficiency ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: beta-ketothiolase deficiency ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase deficiency ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: glutamate formiminotransferase deficiency ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: glutaric acidemia type I ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: glycine encephalopathy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: guanidinoacetate methyltransferase deficiency ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: Hartnup disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: histidinemia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: homocystinuria ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: hyperlysinemia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: hypermethioninemia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: hyperprolinemia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: isobutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: isolated sulfite oxidase deficiency ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: isovaleric acidemia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: Lesch-Nyhan syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: lysinuric protein intolerance ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: maple syrup urine disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: methylmalonic acidemia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: methylmalonic acidemia with homocystinuria ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase deficiency ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: primary hyperoxaluria ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: prolidase deficiency ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: propionic acidemia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: short/branched chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: tyrosinemia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Clinical Trials

  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Amino Acid Metabolism, Inborn Errors ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

  * Article: The association between homocysteine and ischemic stroke subtypes in Chinese: A...
  * Article: [Hyperhomocysteinemia and endothelial dysfunction in patients with cerebral vascular and autoimmune...
  * Article: Albinism: epidemiology, genetics, cutaneous characterization, psychosocial factors.
  * Amino Acid Metabolism Disorders -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

  * Oxalosis and Hyperoxaluria Foundation

## Topic Image

![Photograph of a doctor talking to a
patient](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Doctor_talking_to_patient.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

  * Alkaptonuria
  * Amino acids
  * Hartnup disorder
  * Methylmalonic acid blood test
  * Methylmalonic acidemia
  * Plasma amino acids

## Related Health Topics

  * Carbohydrate Metabolism Disorders
  * Dietary Proteins
  * Lipid Metabolism Disorders
  * Metabolic Disorders

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 13 November 2019 Topic last reviewed: 23 August 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

