Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003132.htm    
                                Description: Foul-smelling stools are stools with a very bad odor. They very often have to do with what you eat, but may be a sign of a medical condition.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Stools - foul smelling

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003132.htm

# Stools - foul smelling

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Foul-smelling stools are stools with a very bad odor. They very often have to
do with what you eat, but may be a sign of a medical condition.

## Considerations

Stools normally have an unpleasant odor. Most of the time, the odor is
familiar. Stools that have an extremely bad, abnormal odor may be due to
certain medical conditions. Foul-smelling stools also have normal causes, such
as diet changes.

## Causes

Causes may include:

    * Celiac disease - sprue
    * Crohn disease
    * Chronic pancreatitis
    * Cystic fibrosis
    * Intestinal infection
    * Malabsorption
    * Short bowel syndrome
    * Blood in stool from stomach or intestine

## Home Care

Home care depends on what is causing the problem. Things you can do include:

    * Follow your health care provider's instructions.
    * If you have been given a special diet, stick to it closely.
    * If you have diarrhea, drink more fluids so you do not get dehydrated. 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have:

    * Black or pale stools often
    * Blood in the stool
    * Changes in the stool related to diet
    * Chills
    * Cramping
    * Fever
    * Pain in the abdomen
    * Weight loss 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will perform a physical exam and ask about your medical history.
Questions may include:

    * When did you first notice the change?
    * Are the stools an abnormal color (such as pale or clay-colored stools)?
    * Are the stools black (melena)?
    * Are your stools hard to flush?
    * What sort of diet have you eaten recently?
    * Does a change in your diet make the smell worse or better?
    * What other symptoms do you have? 

The provider may take a stool sample. Other tests may be needed.

## Alternative Names

Foul-smelling stools; Malodorous stools

## Images

    * ![Lower digestive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8735t.jpg)Lower digestive anatomy

## References

Hogenauer C, Hammer HF. Maldigestion and malabsorption. In: Feldman M,
Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and
Liver Disease._ 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 104.

McQuaid KR. Approach to the patient with gastrointestinal disease. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 132.

Swartz MH. The abdomen. In: Swartz MH, ed. _Textbook of Physical Diagnosis_.
7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 14.

## Review Date 6/21/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bowel Movement](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BowelMovement_thumb.jpg)Bowel
Movement _Read more_

![Digestive
System](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DigestiveDiseasesandIntestinalCancer_thumb.jpg)Digestive
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

