Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003755.htm    
                                Description: Fecal smear is a laboratory test of a stool sample. This test is done to check for bacteria and other organisms. Presence of organisms in stool shows diseases in the digestive tract.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Fecal smear

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003755.htm

# Fecal smear

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Fecal smear is a laboratory test of a stool sample. This test is done to check
for bacteria and other organisms. Presence of organisms in stool shows
diseases in the digestive tract.

## How the Test is Performed

A stool sample is needed.

There are many ways to collect the sample. You can collect the sample:

    * On plastic wrap: Place the wrap loosely over the toilet bowl so that it is held in place by the toilet seat. Put the sample in a clean container given to you by your health care provider.
    * In a test kit that supplies a special toilet tissue: Put the sample in a clean container given to you by your provider. 

Do not mix urine, water, or toilet tissue with the sample.

For children wearing diapers:

    * Line the diaper with plastic wrap.
    * Position the plastic wrap so that it will prevent urine and stool from mixing. This will provide a better sample.
    * Put the sample in a container given to you by your provider. 

Make sure you follow your provider's instructions for returning the sample.
Return the sample to the lab as soon as possible.

The stool sample is sent to a lab where a small amount is placed on a slide.
The slide is placed under a microscope and checked for the presence of
bacteria, fungi, parasites, or viruses. A stain may be placed on the sample
that highlights certain germs under the microscope.

## How to Prepare for the Test

There is no preparation needed.

## How the Test will Feel

There is no discomfort.

## Why the Test is Performed

Your provider may order this test if you have severe diarrhea that will not go
away or that keeps returning. The test result may be used to select the
correct antibiotic treatment.

## Normal Results

A normal result means there are no disease-causing germs present.

Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different labs. Talk to your
provider about the meaning of your test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An abnormal result means that abnormal germs have been found in the stool
sample. This may be due to an infection of the digestive tract.

## Risks

There are no risks associated with a fecal smear.

## Alternative Names

Stool smear

## Images

    * ![Lower digestive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8735t.jpg)Lower digestive anatomy

## References

Beavis, KG, Charnot-Katsikas, A. Specimen collection and handling for
diagnosis of infectious diseases. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's
Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 64.

DuPont HL. Approach to the patient with suspected enteric infection. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25thed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 283.

Hall GS, Woods GL. Medical bacteriology. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds.
_Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 58.

Semrad CE. Approach to the patient with diarrhea and malabsorption. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25thed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 140.

Siddiqi HA, Salwen MJ, Shaikh MF, Bowne WB. Laboratory diagnosis of
gastrintestinal and pancreatic disorders. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds.
_Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 22.

## Review Date 4/15/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bowel Movement](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BowelMovement_thumb.jpg)Bowel
Movement _Read more_

![Diarrhea](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Diarrhea_thumb.jpg)Diarrhea _Read
more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

