Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003758.htm    
                                Description: A fecal culture is a lab test to find organisms in the stool (feces) that can cause gastrointestinal symptoms and disease.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Fecal culture

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003758.htm

# Fecal culture

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A fecal culture is a lab test to find organisms in the stool (feces) that can
cause gastrointestinal symptoms and disease.

## How the Test is Performed

A stool sample is needed.

There are many ways to collect the sample.

You can collect the sample:

    * On plastic wrap. Place the wrap loosely over the toilet bowl so that it is held in place by the toilet seat. Put the sample in a clean container given to you by your health care provider.
    * In a test kit that supplies a special toilet tissue. Put it in a clean container given to you by your provider. 

Do not mix urine, water, or toilet tissue with the sample.

For children wearing diapers:

    * Line the diaper with plastic wrap.
    * Position the plastic wrap so that it will prevent urine and stool from mixing. This will provide a better sample. 

Return the sample to the laboratory as soon as possible. Do not include toilet
paper or urine in the specimen.

In the lab, a technician places a sample of the specimen in a special dish.
The dish is then filled with a gel that boosts the growth of bacteria or other
germs. If there is growth, the germs are identified. The lab technician may
also do more tests to determine the best treatment.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You will get a collection container for the stool specimen.

## How the Test will Feel

There is no discomfort.

## Why the Test is Performed

The test is performed when your health care provider suspects that you may
have a gastrointestinal infection. It may be done if you have severe diarrhea
that does not go away or that keeps coming back.

## Normal Results

There are no abnormal bacteria or other organisms in the sample.

Talk to your provider about the meaning of your specific test results.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results mayÂ mean you haveÂ an intestinal infection.

## Risks

There are no risks.

## Considerations

Often other stool tests are done in addition to the culture, such as:

    * Gram stain of stool
    * Fecal smear
    * Stool ova and parasites exam

## Alternative Names

Stool culture; Culture - stool; Gastroenteritis fecal culture

## Images

    * ![Salmonella typhi organism](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1048t.jpg)Salmonella typhi organism
    * ![Yersinia enterocolitica organism](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1049t.jpg)Yersinia enterocolitica organism
    * ![Campylobacter jejuni organism](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1050t.jpg)Campylobacter jejuni organism
    * ![Clostridium difficile organism](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1051t.jpg)Clostridium difficile organism

## References

Beavis, KG, Charnot-Katsikas, A. Specimen collection and handling for
diagnosis of infectious diseases. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds. _Henry's
Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 64.

DuPont HL. Approach to the patient with suspected enteric infection. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 283.

Hall GS, Woods GL. Medical bacteriology. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds.
_Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 58.

Semrad CE. Approach to the patient with diarrhea and malabsorption. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 140.

Siddiqi HA, Salwen MJ, Shaikh MF, Bowne WB. Laboratory diagnosis of
gastrointestinal and pancreatic disorders. In: McPherson RA, Pincus MR, eds.
_Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods_. 23rd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 22.

## Review Date 4/16/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bowel Movement](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BowelMovement_thumb.jpg)Bowel
Movement _Read more_

![Diarrhea](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Diarrhea_thumb.jpg)Diarrhea _Read
more_

![Footborne
Illness](https://medlineplus.gov/images/FoodborneIllness_thumb.jpg)Foodborne
Illness _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

