Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003128.htm    
                                Description: Stools that float are most often due to poor absorption of nutrients (malabsorption) or too much gas (flatulence).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Stools - floating

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003128.htm

# Stools - floating

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Stools that float are most often due to poor absorption of nutrients
(malabsorption) or too much gas (flatulence).

## Considerations

Most causes of floating stools are harmless. In most cases, floating stools
will go away without treatment.

Floating stools alone are not a sign of an illness or other health problem.

## Causes

Many things can cause floating stools. Most of the time, floating stools are
due to what you eat. A change in your diet may cause an increase in gas.
Increased gas in the stool allows it to float.

Floating stools may also happen if you have a gastrointestinal infection.

Floating, greasy stools that are foul smelling may be due to severe
malabsorption, particularly if you are losing weight. Malabsorption means your
body is not properly absorbing nutrients.

Most floating stools are not caused by an increase in the fat content of the
stool. However, in some conditions, such as long-term (chronic) pancreatitis,
the fat content is increased.

## Home Care

If a change in diet has caused floating stools or other health problems, try
to find which food is to blame. Avoiding this food may be helpful.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Tell your health care provider if you have changes in your stools or bowel
movements. Contact your provider right away if you have bloody stools with
weight loss, dizziness, and fever.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will perform a physical exam and ask questions about your
medical history and symptoms, such as:

    * When did you first notice the floating stools?
    * Does it happen all the time or from time to time?
    * What is your basic diet?
    * Does a change in your diet change your stools?
    * Do you have other symptoms?
    * Are the stools foul smelling?
    * Are the stools an abnormal color (such as pale or clay-colored stools)? 

A stool sample may be needed. Blood tests may be done. In most cases, however,
these tests will not be needed.

Treatment depends on the specific diagnosis.

## Alternative Names

Floating stools

## Images

    * ![Lower digestive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8735t.jpg)Lower digestive anatomy

## References

Schiller LR, Sellin JH. Diarrhea. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds.
_Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 16.

Semrad CE. Approach to the patient with diarrhea and malabsorption. In:
Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 140.

## Review Date 4/10/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bowel Movement](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BowelMovement_thumb.jpg)Bowel
Movement _Read more_

![Digestive
System](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DigestiveDiseasesandIntestinalCancer_thumb.jpg)Digestive
Diseases _Read more_

![Malabsorption
Syndromes](https://medlineplus.gov/images/MalabsorptionSyndromes_thumb.jpg)Malabsorption
Syndromes _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

