Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000133.htm    
                                Description: Health conditions that cause nerve damage can cause problems with how your bowels function. A daily bowel care program can help manage this problem and avoid embarrassment.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Daily bowel care program

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000133.htm

# Daily bowel care program

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Health conditions that cause nerve damage can cause problems with how your
bowels function. A daily bowel care program can help manage this problem and
avoid embarrassment.

## What to Expect at Home

Nerves that help your bowels work smoothly can be damaged after a brain or
spinal cord injury. People with multiple sclerosis also have problems with
their bowels. Those with poorly controlled diabetes can also be affected.
Symptoms may include:

    * Constipation (hard bowel movements)
    * Diarrhea (loose bowel movements)
    * Loss of bowel control 

A daily bowel care program can help you avoid embarrassment. Work with your
health care provider.

## Basic Bowel Program

Keeping active helps prevent constipation. Try to walk, if you can. If you are
in a wheelchair, ask your provider about exercises.

Eat plenty of food that is high in fiber. Read labels on packages and bottles
to see how much fiber the food contains.

    * Get up to 30 grams of fiber a day.
    * For children, add 5 to the child's age to get the number of fiber grams they need. 

Once you find a bowel routine that works, stick with it.

    * Pick a regular time to sit on the toilet, such as after a meal or warm bath. You may need to sit 2 or 3 times a day.
    * Be patient. It may take 15 to 45 minutes to have a bowel movement.
    * Try gently rubbing your stomach to help stool move through your colon.
    * When you feel the urge to have a bowel movement, use the toilet right away. DO NOT wait.
    * Consider drinking prune juice every day, if needed. 

## When you Have Bowel Movement Problems

Use K-Y jelly, petroleum jelly, or mineral oil to help lubricate your rectal
opening.

You may need to insert your finger into the rectum. Your provider can show you
how to gently stimulate the area to help with bowel movements. You may also
need to remove some of the stool.

You can use an enema, stool softener, or laxative until the stool is smaller
and it is easier for you to have a bowel movement.

    * When your bowel movements have been stable for about a month, slowly decrease the use of these medicines.
    * Check with your provider before using laxatives every day. Using enemas and laxatives too often can sometimes make the problem worse. 

## Losing Control of Your Bowels (Incontinence)

Following a regular bowel program may help prevent accidents. Learn to become
aware of signs that you need to have a bowel movement, such as:

    * Feeling restless or cranky
    * Passing more gas
    * Feeling nausea
    * Sweating above the navel, if you had a spinal cord injury 

If you lose control of your bowels, ask yourself these questions:

    * What did I eat or drink?
    * Have I been following my bowel program? 

Other tips include:

    * Always try to be near a bed pan or toilet. Make sure you have access to a bathroom.
    * Always sit on a toilet or bed pan about 20 or 30 minutes after you eat.
    * Use a glycerin suppository or Dulcolax at planned times when you are near a bathroom. 

Know which foods stimulate your bowel or cause diarrhea. Common examples are
milk, fruit juice, raw fruits, and beans or legumes.

Make sure you are not constipated. Some people with very bad constipation leak
stools or leak fluid around the stool.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider if you notice:

    * Pain in your belly that does not go away
    * Blood in your stool
    * You are spending a longer amount of time on bowel care
    * Your belly is very bloated or distended 

## Alternative Names

Incontinence - care; Dysfunctional bowel - care; Neurogenic bowel - care

## References

Camilleri M. Disorders of gastrointestinal motility. In: Goldman L, Schafer
AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 136.

Koyle MA, Lorenzo AJ. Management of defecation disorders. In: Wein AJ,
Kavoussi LR, Partin AW, Peters CA, eds. _Campbell-Walsh Urology_. 11th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 144.

Lembo AJ. Constipation. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds.
_Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 19.

Rao, SSC. Fecal incontinence. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds.
_Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 18.

## Read More

    * Multiple sclerosis
    * Recovering after stroke

## Patient Instructions

    * Constipation - self-care
    * Constipation - what to ask your doctor
    * Diarrhea - what to ask your doctor - child 
    * Diarrhea - what to ask your health care provider - adult
    * How to read food labels
    * Multiple sclerosis - discharge
    * Stroke - discharge 
    * When you have diarrhea
    * When you have nausea and vomiting

## Review Date 6/22/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Bowel Movement
    * Multiple Sclerosis
    * Spinal Cord Injuries

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

