Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003129.htm    
                                Description: Stools that are pale, clay, or putty-colored may be due to problems in the biliary system. The biliary system is the drainage system of the gallbladder, liver, and pancreas.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Stools - pale or clay-colored

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003129.htm

# Stools - pale or clay-colored

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Stools that are pale, clay, or putty-colored may be due to problems in the
biliary system. The biliary system is the drainage system of the gallbladder,
liver, and pancreas.

## Considerations

The liver releases bile salts into the stool, giving it a normal brown color.
You may have clay-colored stools if you have a liver infection that reduces
bile production, or if the flow of bile out of the liver is blocked.

Yellow skin (jaundice) often occurs with clay-colored stools. This may be due
to the buildup of bile chemicals in the body.

## Causes

Possible causes for clay-colored stools include:

    * Alcoholic hepatitis
    * Biliary cirrhosis
    * Cancer or noncancerous (benign) tumors of the liver, biliary system, or pancreas
    * Cysts of the bile ducts
    * Gallstones
    * Some medicines
    * Narrowing of the bile ducts (biliary strictures)
    * Sclerosing cholangitis
    * Structural problems in the biliary system that are present from birth (congenital)
    * Viral hepatitis

There may be other causes not listed here.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if your stools are not the normal brown color.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will perform a physical exam. They will ask questions about your
medical history and symptoms. Questions may include:

    * When did the symptom first occur?
    * Is every stool discolored?
    * What medicines do you take?
    * What other symptoms do you have? 

Tests that may be done include:

    * Blood tests, including tests to check liver function and for viruses that might affect the liver
    * Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP)
    * Imaging studies, such as an abdominal ultrasound, CT scan, or MRI of liver and bile ducts 

## Images

    * ![Lower digestive anatomy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8735t.jpg)Lower digestive anatomy

## References

Anstee QM, Jones DEJ. Liver and biliary tract disease. In: Walker BR, Colledge
NR, Ralston SH, Penman ID, eds. _Davidson's Principles and Practice of
Medicine_. 22nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone;
2014:chap 23.

Berk PD, Korenblat KM. Approach to the patient with jaundice or abnormal liver
tests. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 147.

Lidofsky SD. Jaundice. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger
and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 21.

Marks RA, Saxena R. Liver diseases of childhood. In: Saxena R, ed. _Practical
Hepatic Pathology: A Diagnostic Approach_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2018:chap 5.

## Review Date 6/22/2018

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bowel Movement](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BowelMovement_thumb.jpg)Bowel
Movement _Read more_

![Digestive
System](https://medlineplus.gov/images/DigestiveDiseasesandIntestinalCancer_thumb.jpg)Digestive
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

