Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003272.htm    
                                Description: Microcephaly is a condition in which a person    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Microcephaly

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003272.htm

# Microcephaly

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Microcephaly is a condition in which a person's head size is much smaller than
that of others of the same age and sex. Head size is measured as the distance
around the top of the head. A smaller than normal size is determined using
standardized charts.

## Causes

Microcephaly most often occurs because the brain does not grow at a normal
rate. The growth of the skull is determined by brain growth. Brain growth
takes place while a baby is in the womb and during infancy.

Conditions that affect brain growth can cause smaller than normal head size.
These include infections, genetic disorders, and severe malnutrition.

Genetic conditions that cause microcephaly include:

    * Cornelia de Lange syndrome
    * Cri du chat syndrome
    * Down syndrome
    * Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome
    * Seckel syndrome
    * Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome
    * Trisomy 18
    * Trisomy 21 

Other problems that may lead to microcephaly include:

    * Uncontrolled phenylketonuria (PKU) in the mother
    * Methylmercury poisoning
    * Congenital rubella
    * Congenital toxoplasmosis
    * Congenital cytomegalovirus (CMV)
    * Use of certain drugs during pregnancy, especially alcohol and phenytoin

Becoming infected with the Zika virus while pregnant can also cause
microcephaly. The Zika virus is present in Brazil and other parts of South
America, along with Mexico, Central America, and the Caribbean.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Most often, microcephaly is diagnosed at birth or during routine well-baby
exams. Talk to your health care provider if you think your infant's head size
is too small or not growing normally.

Call your provider if you or your partner has been to an area where Zika is
present and you are pregnant or thinking about becoming pregnant.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Most of the time, microcephaly is discovered during a routine exam. Head
measurements are part of all well-baby exams for the first 18 months. Tests
take only a few seconds while the measuring tape is placed around the infant's
head.

The provider will keep a record over time to determine:

    * What is the head circumference?
    * Is the head growing at a slower rate than the body?
    * What other symptoms are there? 

It may also be helpful to keep your own records of your baby's growth. Talk to
your provider if you notice that the baby's head growth seems to be slowing
down.

If your provider diagnoses your child with microcephaly, you should note it in
your child's personal medical records.

## Images

    * ![Skull of a newborn](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1127t.jpg)Skull of a newborn
    * ![Microcephaly](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17256t.jpg)Microcephaly
    * ![Ultrasound, normal fetus - ventricles of brain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/2266t.jpg)Ultrasound, normal fetus - ventricles of brain

## References

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. Zika virus.
www.cdc.gov/zika/index.html. Updated November 9, 2017. Accessed November 12,
2017.

Johansson MA, Mier-Y-Teran-Romero L, Reefhuis J, Gilboa SM, Hills SL. Zika and
the risk of microcephaly. _N Engl J Med_. 2016;375(1):1-4. PMID: 27222919
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27222919.

Kinsman SL, Johnston MV. Congenital anomalies of the central nervous system.
In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 591.

Mizaa GM, Dobyns WB. Disorders of brain size. In: Swaiman KF, Ashwal S,
Ferriero DM, et al, eds. _Swaiman's Pediatric Neurology: Principles and
Practice_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 28.

## Review Date 10/18/2017

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Brain
Malformations](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BrainMalformations_thumb.jpg)Brain
Malformations _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

