Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001664.htm    
                                Description: Aicardi syndrome is a rare disorder. In this condition, the structure that connects the two sides of the brain (called the corpus callosum) is partly or completely missing. Nearly all known cases occur    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Aicardi syndrome

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001664.htm

# Aicardi syndrome

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Aicardi syndrome is a rare disorder. In this condition, the structure that
connects the two sides of the brain (called the corpus callosum) is partly or
completely missing. Nearly all known cases occur in people with no history of
the disorder in their family (sporadic).

## Causes

The cause of Aicardi syndrome is unknown at this time. In some cases, experts
believe it may be a result of a gene defect on the X chromosome.

The disorder affects only girls.

## Symptoms

Symptoms most often start when the child is between ages 3 and 5 months. The
condition causes jerking (infantile spasms), a type of childhood seizure.

Aicardi syndrome may occur with other brain defects.

Other symptoms may include:

    * Coloboma (cat's eye)
    * Intellectual disability
    * Smaller-than-normal eyes (microphthalmia) 

## Exams and Tests

Children are diagnosed with Aicardi syndrome if they meet the following
criteria:

    * Corpus callosum that is partly or completely missing
    * Female sex
    * Seizures (typically beginning as infantile spasms)
    * Sores on the retina (retinal lesions) or optic nerve 

In rare cases, one of these features may be missing (especially lack of
development of the corpus callosum).

Tests to diagnose Aicardi syndrome include:

    * CT scan of the head
    * EEG
    * Eye exam
    * MRI

Other procedures and tests may be done, depending on the person.

## Treatment

Treatment is done to help prevent symptoms. It involves managing seizures and
any other health concerns. Treatment uses programs to help the family and
child cope with delays in development.

## Support Groups

Aicardi Syndrome Foundation -- ouraicardilife.org

National Organization for Rare Disorders (NORD) -- rarediseases.org

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outlook depends on how severe the symptoms are and what other health
conditions are present.

Nearly all children with this syndrome have severe learning difficulties and
remain completely dependent on others. However, a few have some language
abilities and some can walk on their own or with support. Vision varies from
normal to blind.

## Possible Complications

Complications depend on the severity of symptoms.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your health care provider if your child has symptoms of Aicardi syndrome.
Seek emergency care if the infant is having spasms or a seizure.

## Alternative Names

Agenesis of corpus callosum with chorioretinal abnormality; Agenesis of corpus
callosum with infantile spasms and ocular abnormalities; Callosal agenesis and
ocular abnormalities; Chorioretinal anomalies with ACC

## Images

    * ![Corpus callosum of the brain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8753t.jpg)Corpus callosum of the brain

## References

Beres S. Aicardi syndrome. American Academy of Ophthalmology website.
www.aao.org/pediatric-center-detail/neuro-ophthalmology-aicardi-syndrome.
Accessed August 19, 2018.

Kinsman SL, Johnston MV. Congenital anomalies of the central nervous system.
In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. _Nelson Textbook of
Pediatrics_. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 591.

Samat HB, Flores-Samat L. Developmental disorders of the nervous system. In:
Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology in
Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 89.

US National Library of Medicine website. Aicardi syndrome.
ghr.nlm.nih.gov/condition/aicardi-syndrome. Updated September 20, 2016.
Accessed August 19, 2018.

## Review Date 8/5/2018

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Brain
Malformations](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BrainMalformations_thumb.jpg)Brain
Malformations _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

