Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003307.htm    
                                Description: Separated sutures are abnormally wide spaces in the bony joints of the skull in an infant.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Sutures - separated

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003307.htm

# Sutures - separated

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Separated sutures are abnormally wide spaces in the bony joints of the skull
in an infant.

## Considerations

The skull of an infant or young child is made up of bony plates that allow for
growth. The borders where these plates come together are called sutures or
suture lines.

In an infant only a few minutes old, the pressure from delivery may compress
the head. This makes the bony plates overlap at the sutures and creates a
small ridge. This is normal in newborns. In the next few days, the baby's head
expands. The overlap disappears and the edges of the bony plates meet edge-to-
edge. This is the normal position.

Diseases or conditions that cause an abnormal increase in the pressure within
the head can cause the sutures to spread apart. These separated sutures can be
a sign of pressure within the skull (increased intracranial pressure).

Separated sutures may be associated with bulging fontanelles. If intracranial
pressure is increased a lot, there may be large veins over the scalp.

## Causes

The problem may be caused by:

    * Arnold-Chiari malformation
    * Battered child syndrome
    * Bleeding inside the brain (intraventricular hemorrhage)
    * Brain tumor
    * Certain vitamin deficiencies
    * Dandy-Walker malformation
    * Down syndrome
    * Hydrocephalus
    * Infections that are present at birth (congenital infections)
    * Lead poisoning
    * Meningitis
    * Subdural hematoma or subdural effusion
    * Underactive thyroid gland (hypothyroidism) 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your health care provider if your child has:

    * Separated sutures, bulging fontanelles, or very obvious scalp veins
    * Redness, swelling, or discharge from the area of the sutures

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will perform a physical exam. This will include examining the
fontanelles and scalp veins and feeling (palpating) the sutures to find out
how far they are separated.

The provider will ask questions about the child's medical history and
symptoms, including:

    * Does the child have other symptoms (such as abnormal head circumference)?
    * When did you first notice the separated sutures?
    * Does it seem to be getting worse?
    * Is the child otherwise well? (For example, are eating and activity patterns normal?) 

The following tests may be performed:

    * MRI of the head
    * CT scan of the head
    * Ultrasound of the head
    * Infectious disease work-up, including blood cultures and possible spinal tap
    * Metabolic work-up, such as blood tests to look at electrolyte levels
    * Standard eye exam

Although your provider keeps records from routine checkups, you might find it
helpful to keep your own records of your child's development. Bring these
records to your provider's attention if you notice anything unusual.

## Alternative Names

Separation of the sutures

## Images

    * ![Skull of a newborn](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1127t.jpg)Skull of a newborn

## References

Ball JW, Dains JE, Flynn JA, Solomon BS, Stewart RW. Head and neck. In: Ball
JW, Dains JE, Flynn JA, Solomon BS, Stewart RW, eds. _Seidel's Guide to
Physical Examination_. 9th ed. St Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2019:chap 11.

Goyal NK. The newborn infant. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS,
Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 113.

Rosenberg GA. Brain edema and disorders of cerebrospinal fluid circulation.
In: Daroff RB, Jankovic J, Mazziotta JC, Pomeroy SL, eds. _Bradley's Neurology
in Clinical Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 88.

## Review Date 3/6/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Brain
Malformations](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BrainMalformations_thumb.jpg)Brain
Malformations _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

