Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003305.htm    
                                Description: Increased head circumference is when the measured distance around the widest part of the skull is larger than expected for the child    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Increased head circumference

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003305.htm

# Increased head circumference

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Increased head circumference is when the measured distance around the widest
part of the skull is larger than expected for the child's age and background.

## Considerations

A newborn's head is usually about 2 cm larger than the chest size. Between 6
months and 2 years, both measurements are about equal. After 2 years, the
chest size becomes larger than the head.

Measurements over time that show an increased rate of head growth often
provide more valuable information than a single measurement that is larger
than expected.

Increased pressure inside the head (increased intracranial pressure) often
occurs with increased head circumference. Symptoms of this condition include:

    * Eyes moving downward
    * Irritability
    * Vomiting 

## Causes

Increased head size may be from any of the following:

    * Benign familial macrocephaly (family tendency toward large head size)
    * Canavan disease (condition that affects how the body breaks down and uses a protein called aspartic acid)
    * Hydrocephalus (buildup of fluid inside the skull that leads to brain swelling)
    * Bleeding inside the skull
    * Disease in which the body is unable break down long chains of sugar molecules (Hurler or Morquio syndrome) 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

The health care provider usually finds an increased head size in a baby during
a routine well-baby exam.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

A careful physical exam will be done. Other milestones for growth and
development will be checked.

In some cases, a single measurement is enough to confirm that there is a size
increase that needs to be tested further. More often, repeated measurements of
the head circumference over time are needed to confirm that the head
circumference is increased and the problem is getting worse.

Diagnostic tests that may be ordered include:

    * Head CT scan
    * MRI of the head

Treatment depends on the cause of the increased head size. For example, for
hydrocephalus, surgery may be needed to relieve the buildup of fluid inside
the skull.

## Alternative Names

Macrocephaly

## Images

    * ![Skull of a newborn](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1127t.jpg)Skull of a newborn

## References

Bamba V, Kelly A. Assessment of growth. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ,
Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 27.

Robinson S, Cohen AR. Disorders in head shape and size. In: Martin RJ,
Fanaroff AA, Walsh MC, eds. _Fanaroff and Martin's Neonatal-Perinatal
Medicine_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 64.

## Review Date 5/17/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Brain
Malformations](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BrainMalformations_thumb.jpg)Brain
Malformations _Read more_

![Craniofacial
Abnormalities](https://medlineplus.gov/images/CraniofacialAbnormalities_thumb.jpg)Craniofacial
Abnormalities _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

