Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000773.htm    
                                Description: Bell palsy is a disorder of the nerve that controls movement of the muscles in the face. This nerve is called the facial orÂ seventh cranial nerve.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bell palsy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000773.htm

# Bell palsy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Bell palsy is a disorder of the nerve that controls movement of the muscles in
the face. This nerve is called the facial orÂ seventh cranial nerve.

Damage to this nerve causes weakness or paralysis of these muscles. Paralysis
means that you cannot use the muscles at all.

## Causes

Bell palsy can affect people of any age, most commonly those over age 65
years. It can also affect children younger than 10 years. Males and females
are equally affected.

Bell palsy is thought to be due to swelling (inflammation) of the facial nerve
in the area where it travels through the bones of the skull. This nerve
controls movement of the muscles of the face.

The cause is often not clear. A type of herpes infection called herpes zoster
might be involved. Other conditions that may cause Bell palsy include:

    * HIV/AIDS infection
    * Lyme disease
    * Middle ear infection
    * SarcoidosisÂ (inflammation of the lymph nodes, lungs, liver, eyes, skin, or other tissues)

Having diabetes and being pregnant may increase the risk for Bell palsy.

## Symptoms

Sometimes, you may have a cold shortly before the symptoms of Bell palsy
begin.

Symptoms most often start suddenly, but may take 2 to 3 days to show up. They
do not become more severe after that.

Symptoms are almost always on one side of the face only. They may range from
mild to severe.

Many people feel discomfort behind the ear before weakness is noticed. The
face feels stiff or pulled to one side and may look different. Other signs can
include:

    * Difficulty closing one eye
    * Difficulty eating and drinking; food falls out of one side of the mouth
    * Drooling due to lack of control over the muscles of the face
    * Drooping of the face, such as the eyelid or corner of the mouth
    * Problems smiling, grimacing, or making facial expressions
    * Twitching or weakness of the muscles in the face 

Other symptoms that may occur:

    * Dry eye, which may lead to eye sores or infections
    * Dry mouth
    * Headache if there is an infection such as Lyme disease
    * Loss of sense of taste
    * Sound that is louder in one ear (hyperacusis)

## Exams and Tests

Often, Bell palsy can be diagnosed just by taking a health history and doing a
complete physical exam.

Blood tests will be done to look for medical problems such as Lyme disease,
which may cause Bell palsy.

Sometimes, a test is needed to check the nerves that supply the muscles of the
face:

    * Electromyography (EMG) to check the health of the facial muscles and the nerves that control the muscles
    * Nerve conduction test to check how fast electrical signals move through a nerve

If your health care provider is worried that a brain tumor is causing your
symptoms, you may need:

    * CT scan of the head
    * Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the head

## Treatment

Often, no treatment is needed. Symptoms often begin to improve right away.
But, it may take weeks or even months for the muscles to get stronger.

Your provider may give you lubricating eye drops or eye ointments to keep the
surface of the eye moist if you can't close it completely. You may need to
wear an eye patch while you sleep.

Sometimes, medicines may be used, but it isn't known how much they help. If
medicines are used, they are started right away. Common medicines are:

    * Corticosteroids, which may reduce swelling around the facial nerve
    * Medicines such as valacyclovir to fight the virus that may be causing Bell palsy

Surgery to relieve pressure on the nerve (decompression surgery) has not been
shown to benefit most people with Bell palsy.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Most cases go away completely within a few weeks to months.

If you did not lose all of your nerve function and symptoms began to improve
within 3 weeks, you are more likely to regain all or most of the strength in
your facial muscles.

Sometimes, the following symptoms may still be present:

    * Long-term changes in taste
    * Spasms of muscles or eyelids
    * Weakness that remains in facial muscles 

## Possible Complications

Complications may include:

    * Eye surface becoming dry, leading to eye sores, infections, and vision loss
    * Swelling in the muscles due to loss of nerve function

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider right away if your face droops or you have other symptoms
of Bell palsy. Your provider can rule out other, more serious conditions, such
as stroke.

## Prevention

There is no known way to prevent Bell palsy.

## Alternative Names

Facial palsy; Idiopathic peripheral facial palsy; Cranial mononeuropathy -
Bell palsy; Bell palsy

## Images

    * ![Ptosis - drooping of the eyelid](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1111t.jpg)Ptosis - drooping of the eyelid
    * ![Facial drooping](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9101t.jpg)Facial drooping

## References

National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke website. Bell's palsy
fact sheet. www.ninds.nih.gov/Disorders/Patient-Caregiver-Education/Fact-
Sheets/Bells-Palsy-Fact-Sheet. Updated May 10, 2017. Accessed August 1, 2018.

Schlieve T, Miloro M, Kolokythas A. Diagnosis and management of trigeminal and
facial nerve injuries. In: Fonseca RJ, ed. _Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery_.
3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 5.

Stettler BA. Brain and cranial nerve disorders. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS,
Gausche-Hill M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical
Practice_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 95.

## Review Date 4/30/2018

Updated by: Amit M. Shelat, DO, FACP, Attending Neurologist and Assistant
Professor of Clinical Neurology, SUNY Stony Brook, School of Medicine, Stony
Brook, NY. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Bell's Palsy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BellsPalsy_thumb.jpg)Bell's
Palsy _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

