Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007215.htm    
                                Description: Postpartum depression is moderate to severe depression in a woman after she has given birth. It may occur soon after delivery or up to a year later. Most of the time, it occurs within the first 3 months    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Postpartum depression

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007215.htm

# Postpartum depression

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Postpartum depression is moderate to severe depression in a woman after she
has given birth. It may occur soon after delivery or up to a year later. Most
of the time, it occurs within the first 3 months after delivery.

## Causes

The exact causes of postpartum depression are unknown. Changes in hormone
levels during and after pregnancy may affect a woman's mood. Many non-hormonal
factors may also affect mood during this period:

    * Changes in your body from pregnancy and delivery
    * Changes in work and social relationships
    * Having less time and freedom for yourself
    * Lack of sleep
    * Worries about your ability to be a good mother

You may have a higher chance of postpartum depression if you:

    * Are under age 25 years
    * Currently use alcohol, take illegal substances, or smoke (these also cause serious health risks for the baby)
    * Did not plan the pregnancy, or had mixed feelings about the pregnancy
    * Had depression, bipolar disorder, or an anxiety disorder before your pregnancy, or with a past pregnancy
    * Had a stressful event during the pregnancy or delivery, including personal illness, death or illness of a loved one, a difficult or emergency delivery, premature delivery, or illness or birth defect in the baby
    * Have a close family member who has had depression or anxiety
    * Have a poor relationship with your significant other or are single
    * Have money or housing problems
    * Have little support from family, friends, or your spouse or partner

## Symptoms

Feelings of anxiety, irritation, tearfulness, and restlessness are common in
the week or two after pregnancy. These feelings are often called the
postpartum or "baby blues." They almost always go away soon, without the need
for treatment.

Postpartum depression may occur when the baby blues do not fade away or when
signs of depression start 1 or more months after childbirth.

The symptoms of postpartum depression are the same as the symptoms of
depression that occurs at other times in life. Along with a sad or depressed
mood, you may have some of the following symptoms:

    * Agitation or irritability
    * Changes in appetite
    * Feelings of worthlessness or guilt
    * Feeling like you are withdrawn or unconnected
    * Lack of pleasure or interest in most or all activities
    * Loss of concentration
    * Loss of energy
    * Problems doing tasks at home or work
    * Significant anxiety
    * Thoughts of death or suicide
    * Trouble sleeping 

A mother with postpartum depression may also:

    * Be unable to care for herself or her baby.
    * Be afraid to be alone with her baby.
    * Have negative feelings toward the baby or even think about harming the baby. (Although these feelings are scary, they are almost never acted on. Still you should tell your doctor about them right away.)
    * Worry intensely about the baby or have little interest in the baby. 

## Exams and Tests

There is no single test to diagnose postpartum depression. Diagnosis is based
on the symptoms you describe to your health care provider.

Your provider may order blood tests to screen for medical causes of
depression.

## Treatment

A new mother who has any symptoms of postpartum depression should contact her
provider right away to get help.

Here are some other tips:

    * Ask your partner, family, and friends for help with the baby's needs and in the home.
    * Do not hide your feelings. Talk about them with your partner, family, and friends.
    * Do not make any major life changes during pregnancy or right after giving birth.
    * Do not try to do too much, or to be perfect.
    * Make time to go out, visit friends, or spend time alone with your partner.
    * Rest as much as you can. Sleep when the baby is sleeping.
    * Talk with other mothers or join a support group. 

The treatment for depression after birth often includes medicine, talk
therapy, or both. Breastfeeding will play a role in what medicine your
provider recommends. You may be referred to a mental health specialist.
Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) and interpersonal therapy (IPT) are types
of talk therapy that often help postpartum depression.

Support groups may be helpful, but they should not replace medicine or talk
therapy if you have postpartum depression.

Having good social support from family, friends, and coworkers may help reduce
the seriousness of postpartum depression.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

Medicine and talk therapy can often successfully reduce or eliminate symptoms.

## Possible Complications

Left untreated, postpartum depression can last for months or years.

The potential long-term complications are the same as in major depression.
Untreated postpartum depression may put you at risk of harming yourself or
your baby.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have any of the following:

    * Your baby blues do not go away after 2 weeks
    * Symptoms of depression get more intense
    * Symptoms of depression begin at any time after delivery, even many months later
    * It is hard for you to perform tasks at work or home
    * You cannot care for yourself or your baby
    * You have thoughts of harming yourself or your baby
    * You develop thoughts that are not based in reality, or you start hearing or seeing things that other people don't 

Do not be afraid to seek help right away if you feel overwhelmed and are
afraid that you may hurt your baby.

## Prevention

Having good social support from family, friends, and coworkers may help reduce
the seriousness of postpartum depression, but may not prevent it.

Women who had postpartum depression after past pregnancies may be less likely
to develop postpartum depression again if they start taking antidepressant
medicines after they deliver. Talk therapy may also be helpful in preventing
depression.

## Alternative Names

Depression - postpartum; Postnatal depression; Postpartum psychological
reactions

## References

American Psychiatric Association. Depressive disorders. _Diagnostic and
Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders_. 5th ed. Arlington, VA: American
Psychiatric Publishing, 2013:155-233.

Nonacs RM, Wang B, Viguera AC, Cohen LS. Psychiatric illness during pregnancy
and the post-partum period. In: Stern TA, Fava M, Wilens TE, Rosenbaum JF,
eds. _Massachusetts General Hospital Comprehensive Clinical Psychiatry_. 2nd
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 31.

Siu AL; US Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF), Bibbins-Domingo K, et al.
Screening for depression in adults: US Preventive Services Task Force
recommendation statement. _JAMA_. 2016;315(4):380-387. PMID: 26813211
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26813211.

## Review Date 7/8/2018

Updated by: Ryan James Kimmel, MD, Medical Director of Hospital Psychiatry at
the University of Washington Medical Center, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Postpartum
Depression](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PostpartumDepression_thumb.jpg)Postpartum
Depression _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

