Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000859.htm    
                                Description: Regular exercise is good for your body and safe for most everyone. However, with any type of activity, there is a chance you can get hurt. Exercise injuries can range from strains and sprains to back pain.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

How to avoid exercise injuries

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000859.htm

# How to avoid exercise injuries

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Regular exercise is good for your body and safe for most everyone. However,
with any type of activity, there is a chance you can get hurt. Exercise
injuries can range from strains and sprains to back pain.

With a little planning, you can prevent injury and stay safe during exercise.

## What Causes Exercise Injuries?

Some of the most common causes of exercise injuries include:

    * Exercising before your body has warmed up
    * Repeating the same motion over and over again
    * Not having proper form for your exercise
    * Not resting in between workouts
    * Pushing your body too hard or too quickly
    * Doing an exercise that is too strenuous for your level of fitness
    * Not using proper equipment 

## Warm up and Cool Down

Warming up before exercise gets your blood flowing, warms up your muscles, and
helps you avoid injury. The easiest way to warm up is to exercise slowly for
the first few minutes, then pick up the pace. For example, before running,
walk briskly for 5 to 10 minutes.

You should also cool down after exercise to bring your heart rate and body
temperature back to normal. Cool down by ending your routine at a slower pace
for the last 5 to 10 minutes.

## To Stretch or not to Stretch

To stay flexible, you should stretch at least 2 times a week. But it is
unclear whether stretching really helps reduce injury.

You can stretch either after you have warmed up or after you exercise.

    * DO NOT stretch cold muscles.
    * Hold stretches for no longer than 15 to 30 seconds.
    * DO NOT bounce. 

## Choose Your Exercise Wisely

If you have not been active, or have a health condition, talk with your health
care provider to make sure you are healthy enough for exercise. Ask what types
of exercise might be best for you.

If you are new to exercise, you may want to start with low-intensity options
such as:

    * Walking
    * Swimming
    * Riding a stationary bike
    * Golf 

These types of exercise are less likely to cause injury than higher-impact
activities like running or aerobics. Contact sports like soccer or basketball
are also more likely to cause injury.

## Use the Right Equipment

Using safety equipment can greatly reduce your risk of injury.

Safety equipment for your sport may include:

    * Footwear
    * Helmets
    * Mouth guards
    * Goggles
    * Shin guards or other protective guards
    * Kneepads 

Be sure you use the right type of equipment for your sport. For example, DO
NOT play tennis in running shoes. Wear a ski helmet, not a bike helmet, when
downhill skiing.

Make sure your exercise equipment:

    * Fits you properly
    * Is the right design for your sport or activity
    * Is in good working condition
    * Is used correctly and consistently 

## Learn Good Form

If you are new to an exercise or sport, consider taking lessons to learn the
basics. Learning the right way to do an exercise or sport can help prevent
injury. Look for lessons in your community or through sports or outdoors
organizations. You can also consider hiring a personal trainer.

## Cross Train

To help prevent overuse injuries, vary your workouts. For example, instead of
running 3 days a week, cycle 1 day and run 2. You will use a different set of
muscles, and still get a good workout.

## Listen to Your Body

Forget the old saying "no pain, no gain." Of course, to build strength and
stamina, you will need to push your body. The key is to push slowly and
gradually. You can expect sore muscles after your workout. But you should
never feel pain when exercising. If you feel pain, stop right away.

Being tired all the time can also be a sign that you may be overdoing it. In
general, avoid increasing these 3 things all at the same time:

    * Number of days you exercise
    * Length of time you exercise
    * How hard you work out

If you do have an injury, you can try to treat strains and sprains at home.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your provider for any muscle or joint pain that does not go away after
self-care.

Go to the hospital right away or call 911 if:

    * You have chest pain during or after exercise.
    * You think you have a broken bone.
    * The joint appears out of position.
    * You have a serious injury or severe pain or bleeding.
    * You hear a popping sound and have immediate problems using the joint.

## References

American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons website. Safe exercise.
orthoinfo.aaos.org/en/staying-healthy/safe-exercise. Updated February 2018.
Accessed August 10, 2018.

American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons website. Sports injury prevention for
baby boomers. orthoinfo.aaos.org/en/staying-healthy/sports-injury-prevention-
for-baby-boomers. Updated August 2011. Accessed August 10, 2018.

American Orthopaedic Society for Sports Medicine. Athletes' resources.
www.stopsportsinjuries.org/STOP/Prevent_Injuries/Athletes_Resources.aspx.
Accessed August 2, 2018.

Rothmier JD, Harmon KG, O'Kane JW. Sports medicine. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP,
eds. _Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 29.

Wilk KE, Williams RA. Injury prevention protocols. In: Madden CC, Putukian M,
McCarty EC, Young CC, eds. _Netter's Sports Medicine_. 2nd ed. Philadelphia,
PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 65.

## Review Date 8/3/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Exercise and Physical Fitness
    * Sports Injuries
    * Sports Safety

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

