Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003107.htm    
                                Description: Unexplained weight loss is a decrease in body weight, when you did not try to lose the weight on your own.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Weight loss - unintentional

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003107.htm

# Weight loss - unintentional

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Unexplained weight loss is a decrease in body weight, when you did not try to
lose the weight on your own.

Many people gain and lose weight. Unintentional weight loss is loss of 10
pounds (4.5 kilograms) OR 5% of your normal body weight over 6 to 12 months or
less without knowing the reason.

## Causes

A loss of appetite may be due to:

    * Feeling depressed
    * Cancer, even when other symptoms are not present
    * Chronic infection such as AIDS
    * Chronic illness, such as COPD or Parkinson disease
    * Drugs, including chemotherapy drugs, and thyroid medicines
    * Drug abuse such as amphetamines and cocaine
    * Stress or anxiety 

Chronic digestive system problems that decrease the amount of calories and
nutrients your body absorbs, including:

    * Diarrhea and other infections that last a long time, such as parasites
    * Chronic inflammation of the pancreas
    * Removal of part of the small intestine
    * Overuse of laxatives 

Other causes such as:

    * Eating disorders, such as anorexia nervosa that have not been diagnosed yet
    * Diabetes that has not been diagnosed
    * Overactive thyroid gland 

## Home Care

Your health care provider may suggest changes in your diet and an exercise
program depending on the cause of your weight loss.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if:

    * You or a family member loses more weight than is considered healthy for their age and height.
    * You have lost more than 10 pounds (4.5 kilograms) OR 5% of your normal body weight over 6 to 12 months or less, and you do not know the reason.
    * You have other symptoms in addition to the weight loss. 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will do a physical exam and check your weight. You will be asked
questions about your medical history and symptoms, including:

    * How much weight have you lost?
    * When did the weight loss begin?
    * Has the weight loss occurred quickly or slowly?
    * Are you eating less?
    * Are you eating different foods?
    * Are you exercising more?
    * Have you been sick?
    * Do you have any dental problems or mouth sores?
    * Do you have more stress or anxiety than usual?
    * Have you vomited? Did you make yourself vomit?
    * Are you fainting?
    * Do you have occasional uncontrollable hunger with palpitations, tremor, orÂ sweating?
    * Have you had constipation or diarrhea?
    * Do you have increased thirst or are you drinking more?
    * Are you urinating more than usual?
    * Have you lost any hair?
    * What medicines are you taking?
    * Do you feel sad or depressed?
    * Are you pleased or concerned with the weight loss? 

You may need to see a dietitian for nutrition advice.

## Alternative Names

Loss of weight; Losing weight without trying; Unexplained weight loss

## References

Bistrian BR. Nutritional assessment. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 214.

McQuaid KR. Approach to the patient with gastrointestinal disease. In: Goldman
L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 132.

Seller RH, Symons AB. Weight gain and weight loss. In: Seller RH, Symons AB,
eds. _Differential Diagnosis of Common Complaints_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier; 2018:chap 36.

## Review Date 1/19/2019

Updated by: David C. Dugdale, III, MD, Professor of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of
Medicine. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Body Weight](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BodyWeight_thumb.jpg)Body Weight
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

