Link: https://medlineplus.gov/hemochromatosis.html    
                                Description: Hemochromatosis is an iron overload disease (too much iron in the body). The extra iron can build up in organs and cause damage. Find out how.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Hemochromatosis

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/hemochromatosis.html

#  Hemochromatosis

Also called: Iron overload disease

On this page

### Basics

  * Summary
  * Start Here
  * Diagnosis and Tests
  * Treatments and Therapies

### Learn More

  * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

  * Videos and Tutorials

### Research

  * Clinical Trials
  * Journal Articles

### Resources

  * Find an Expert

### For You

  * Children
  * Patient Handouts

## Summary

Hemochromatosis is a disease in which too much iron builds up in your body.
Your body needs iron but too much of it is toxic. If you have hemochromatosis,
you absorb more iron than you need. Your body has no natural way to get rid of
the extra iron. It stores it in body tissues, especially the liver, heart, and
pancreas. The extra iron can damage your organs. Without treatment, it can
cause your organs to fail.

There are two types of hemochromatosis. Primary hemochromatosis is an
inherited disease. Secondary hemochromatosis is usually the result of
something else, such as anemia, thalassemia, liver disease, or blood
transfusions.

Many symptoms of hemochromatosis are similar to those of other diseases. Not
everyone has symptoms. If you do, you may have joint pain, fatigue, general
weakness, weight loss, and stomach pain.

Your doctor will diagnose hemochromatosis based on your medical and family
histories, a physical exam, and the results from tests and procedures.
Treatments include removing blood (and iron) from your body, medicines, and
changes in your diet.

NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute

## Start Here

  * Hemochromatosis (American Liver Foundation)
  * Hemochromatosis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)
  * Hemochromatosis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)
  * Hereditary Hemochromatosis (American Academy of Family Physicians) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

  * Ferritin Blood Test ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * Iron Tests ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * Liver Function Tests ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * TIBC, UIBC and Transferrin (American Association for Clinical Chemistry)

## Treatments and Therapies

  * Iron Chelation (Aplastic Anemia & MDS International Foundation)

## Genetics

  * Genetics Home Reference: hereditary hemochromatosis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: hypochromic microcytic anemia with iron overload ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Learning about Hereditary Hemochromatosis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Human Genome Research Institute)

## Videos and Tutorials

  * What Is Hemochromatosis? (Dolan DNA Learning Center)

## Clinical Trials

  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Hemochromatosis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

  * Article: Role of TfR2-Y250X and TfR1- rs3817672 Single Nucleotide Polymorphism on Pathophysiology...
  * Article: Association of frequency of hereditary hemochromatosis (HFE) gene mutations (H63D and...
  * Article: Unsafe Deposits: Overlapping Cutaneous Manifestations of Porphyria Cutanea Tarda, Ochronosis, Hemochromatosis,...
  * Hemochromatosis -- see more articles

## Find an Expert

  * National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)
  * National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png)

## Children

  * Hereditary Hemochromatosis (For Parents) (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish

## Patient Handouts

  * Ferritin blood test (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Hemochromatosis (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
  * Hemochromatosis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases)
  * Serum iron test (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish

## Topic Image

![Hemochromatosis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Hemochromatosis.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

  * Ferritin blood test
  * Hemochromatosis
  * Serum iron test
  * Synovial biopsy

## Related Health Topics

  * Iron

## National Institutes of Health

The primary NIH organization for research on Hemochromatosis is the National
Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 20 March 2020 Topic last reviewed: 11 May 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

