Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001910.htm    
                                Description: Growth charts are used to compare your child    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Growth chart

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001910.htm

# Growth chart

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Growth charts are used to compare your child's height, weight, and head size
against children of the same age.

Growth charts can help both you and your health care provider follow your
child as they grow. These charts may provide an early warning that your child
has a medical problem.

Growth charts were developed from information gained by measuring and weighing
thousands of children. From these numbers, the national average weight and
height for each age and gender were established.

The lines or curves on growth charts tell how many other children in the
United States weigh a certain amount at a certain age. For example, the weight
on the 50th percentile line means that one half of the children in the United
States weigh more than that number and one half of the children weigh less.

WHAT GROWTH CHARTS MEASURE

Your child's provider will measure the following during each well-child visit:

    * Weight (measured in ounces and pounds, or grams and kilograms)
    * Height (measured while lying down in children under age 3, and while standing up in children over age 3)
    * Head circumference, a measurement of the head size taken by wrapping a measuring tape around the back of the head above the eyebrows 

Beginning at age 2, a child's body mass index (BMI) can be calculated. Height
and weight are used to figure out the BMI. A BMI measurement can estimate a
child's body fat.

Each of your child's measurements is placed on the growth chart. These
measurements are then compared with the standard (normal) range for children
of the same gender and age. The same chart will be used as your child grows
older.

HOW TO UNDERSTAND A GROWTH CHART

Many parents worry if they learn that their child's height, weight, or head
size is smaller than those of most other children the same age. They worry
about whether their child will do well in school, or be able to keep up in
sports.

Learning a few important facts can make it easier for parents to understand
what different measurements mean:

    * Mistakes in measurement can happen, for example if the baby squirms on the scale.
    * One measurement may not represent the big picture. For example, a toddler may lose weight after a bout of diarrhea, but will likely regain the weight after the illness is gone.
    * There is a wide range for what is considered "normal." Just because your child is in the 15th percentile for weight (meaning 85 out of 100 children weigh more), this number rarely means your child is sick, you are not feeding your child enough, or your breast milk is not enough for your baby.
    * Your child's measurements do not predict whether they will be tall, short, fat, or skinny as an adult. 

Some changes to your child's growth chart may worry your provider more than
others:

    * When one of your child's measurements stays below the 10th percentile or above the 90th percentile for their age.
    * If the head is growing too slowly or too quickly when measured over time.
    * When your child's measurement does not stay close to one line on the graph. For example, a provider may worry if a 6-month-old was in the 75th percentile, but then moved to the 25th percentile at 9 months, and dropped even lower at 12 months. 

Abnormal growth on the growth charts is only a sign of a possible problem.
Your provider will determine whether it is an actual medical problem, or
whether your child's growth just needs to be watched carefully.

## Alternative Names

Height and weight chart

## Images

    * ![Head circumference](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17206t.jpg)Head circumference
    * ![Height/weight chart](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17213t.jpg)Height/weight chart

## References

Bamba V, Kelly A. Assessment of growth. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ,
Shah SS, Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 27.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website, National Center for Health
Statistics. CDC growth charts. www.cdc.gov/growthcharts/cdc_charts.htm.
Updated December 7, 2016. Accessed March 7, 2019.

Cooke DW, Dival SA, Radovick S. Normal and aberrant growth in children. In:
Melmed S, Polonsky KS, Larsen PR, Kronenberg HM, eds. _Williams Textbook of
Endocrinology_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 24.

Kimmel SR, Ratliff-Schaub K. Growth and development. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP,
eds. _Textbook of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 22.

## Review Date 3/6/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Body Weight](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BodyWeight_thumb.jpg)Body Weight
_Read more_

![Child
Development](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChildDevelopment_thumb.jpg)Child
Development _Read more_

![Growth
Disorder](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GrowthDisorders_thumb.jpg)Growth
Disorders _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

