Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003101.htm    
                                Description: Obesity means having too much body fat. It is not the same as overweight, which means weighing too much. A person may be overweight from extra muscle, bone, or water, as well as too much fat. But both    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Overweight

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003101.htm

# Overweight

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Obesity means having too much body fat. It is not the same as overweight,
which means weighing too much. A person may be overweight from extra muscle,
bone, or water, as well as too much fat. But both terms mean that someone's
weight is higher than what is thought to be healthy for their height.

More than 1 out of every 3 adults in the United States is overweight.

## Considerations

Experts often rely on a formula called the body mass index (BMI) to determine
if a person is overweight. The BMI estimates your level of body fat based on
your height and weight.

    * A BMI from 18.5 to 24.9 is considered normal.
    * Adults with a BMI of 25 to 29.9 are considered overweight. Since the BMI is an estimate, it is not accurate for all people. Some people in this group, such as athletes, may have a lot of muscle weight, and therefore not as much fat. These people will not have an increased risk of health problems due to their weight.
    * Adults with a BMI of 30 to 39.9 are considered obese.
    * Adults with a BMI greater than or equal to 40 are considered extremely obese.
    * Anyone more than 100 pounds (45 kilograms) overweight is considered morbidly obese. 

The risk of many medical problems is higher for adults who have excess body
fat and fall into the overweight groups.

CHANGING YOUR LIFESTYLE

An active lifestyle and plenty of exercise, along with healthy eating, is the
safest way to lose weight. Even modest weight loss can improve your health.
Get support from family and friends.

Your main goal should be to learn new, healthy ways of eating and make them
part of your daily routine.

Many people find it hard to change their eating habits and behaviors. You may
have practiced some habits for so long that you may not even know they are
unhealthy, or you do them without thinking. You need to be motivated to make
lifestyle changes. Make the behavior change part of your life over the long
term. Know that it takes time to make and keep a change in your lifestyle.

Work with your health care provider and dietitian to set realistic and safe
daily calorie counts that help you lose weight. Keep in mind that if you dropÂ
your weight slowly and steadily, you are more likely to keep it off. Your
dietitian can teach you about:

    * Shopping for healthy foods
    * How to read nutrition labels
    * Healthy snacks
    * Portion sizes
    * Sweetened drinks

## Alternative Names

Overweight - body mass index; Obesity - body mass index; BMI

## Images

    * ![Different types of weight gain](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23229t.jpg)Different types of weight gain
    * ![Lipocytes \(fat cells\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19267t.jpg)Lipocytes (fat cells)
    * ![Obesity and health](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19473t.jpg)Obesity and health

## References

Boham E, Stone PM, DeBusk R. Obesity. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP, eds. _Textbook
of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 36.

Cowley MA, Brown WA, Considine RV. Obesity: the problem and its management.
In: Jameson JL, De Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult
and Pediatric_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 26.

Jensen MD, Ryan DH, Apovian CM, et al. 2013 AHA/ACC/TOS guideline for the
management of overweight and obesity in adults: a report of the American
College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on practice
guidelines and The Obesity Society. _Circulation_. 2014;129(25 Suppl
2):S102-S138. PMID: 24222017 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24222017.

## Review Date 6/28/2018

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Body Weight](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BodyWeight_thumb.jpg)Body Weight
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

