Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003084.htm    
                                Description: Unintentional weight gain is when you gain weight without trying to do so and you are not eating or drinking more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Weight gain â unintentional

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003084.htm

# Weight gain â unintentional

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Unintentional weight gain is when you gain weight without trying to do so and
you are not eating or drinking more.

## Causes

Gaining weight when you are not trying to do so can have many causes.

Metabolism slows down as you age. This can cause weight gain if you eat too
much, eat the wrong foods, or do not get enough exercise.

Drugs that can cause weight gain include:

    * Birth control pills 
    * Corticosteroids 
    * Some drugs used to treat bipolar disorder, schizophrenia, and depression
    * Some drugs used to treat diabetes

Hormone changes or medical problems can also cause unintentional weight gain.
This may be due to:

    * Cushing syndrome
    * Underactive thyroid, or low thyroid (hypothyroidism)
    * Polycystic ovary syndrome
    * Menopause
    * Pregnancy

Bloating, or swelling due to a buildup of fluid in the tissues can cause
weight gain. This may be due to menstruation, heart or kidney failure,
preeclampsia, or medicines you take. A rapid weight gain may be a sign of
dangerous fluid retention.

If you quit smoking, you might gain weight. Most people who quit smoking gain
4 to 10 pounds (2 to 4.5 kilograms) in the first 6 months after quitting. Some
gain as much as 25 to 30 pounds (11 to 14 kilograms). This weight gain is not
simply due to eating more.

## Home Care

A healthy diet and exercise program can help you manage your weight. Talk to
your health care provider or a dietitian about how to make a healthy eating
plan and set realistic weight goals.

Do not stop any medicines that may be causing the weight gain without talking
with your provider.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your provider if you have the following symptoms with the weight gain:

    * Constipation
    * Excessive weight gain without a known cause
    * Hair loss
    * Feel cold more often than before
    * Swollen feet and shortness of breath
    * Uncontrollable hunger accompanied by palpitations, tremor, and sweating
    * Vision changes 

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will perform a physical exam and calculate your body mass index
(BMI). The provider may also ask questions, such as:

    * How much weight have you gained? Did you gain the weight quickly or slowly?
    * Are you anxious, depressed, or under stress? Do you have a history of depression?
    * What medicines do you take?
    * What other symptoms do you have?

You may have the following tests:

    * Blood tests 
    * Tests to measure hormone levels
    * Nutritional assessment 

Your provider may suggest a diet and exercise program or refer you to a
dietitian. Weight gain caused by stress or feeling sad may require counseling.
If weight gain is caused by a physical illness, treatment (if there is any)
for the underlying cause will be prescribed.

## Images

    * ![Aerobic exercise](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19383t.jpg)Aerobic exercise
    * ![Isometric exercise](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19392t.jpg)Isometric exercise
    * ![Calories and fat per serving](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19489t.jpg)Calories and fat per serving

## References

Boham E, Stone PM, DeBusk R. Obesity. In: Rakel RE, Rakel DP, eds. _Textbook
of Family Medicine_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap
36.

Bray GA. Obesity. In: Feldman M, Friedman LS, Brandt LJ, eds. _Sleisenger and
Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease:
Pathophysiology/Diagnosis/Management_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2016:chap 7.

Maratos-Flier E. Appetite regulation and thermogenesis. In: Jameson JL, De
Groot LJ, de Kretser DM, et al, eds. _Endocrinology: Adult and Pediatric_. 7th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 25.

## Review Date 7/11/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Body Weight](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BodyWeight_thumb.jpg)Body Weight
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

