Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000803.htm    
                                Description: As a new parent, you have many important decisions to make. One is to choose whether to breastfeed your baby or bottle feed using infant formula.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Breastfeeding vs. formula feeding

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000803.htm

# Breastfeeding vs. formula feeding

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

As a new parent, you have many important decisions to make. One is to choose
whether to breastfeed your baby or bottle feed using infant formula.

Health experts agree that breastfeeding is the healthiest option for both mom
and baby. They recommend that babies feed only on breast milk for the first 6
months, and then continue to have breast milk as a main part of their diet
until they are at least 1to 2 years old.

There are very few health problems that make breastfeeding not possible. There
are other reasons women are unable to breastfeed, but with good support and
knowledge, most of these can be overcome.

Here are some things to consider when deciding about breastfeeding. The
decision about how to feed your baby is a personal one, and only you can
decide what is best for you and your family.

## Benefits of Breastfeeding

Breastfeeding is a wonderful way to bond with your little one. Here are some
of the many other benefits of breastfeeding:

    * Breast milk naturally has all the nutrients babies need to grow and develop.
    * Breast milk has antibodies that can help prevent your baby from getting sick.
    * Breastfeeding can help prevent health problems in your baby, such as allergies, eczema, ear infections, and stomach problems.
    * Breastfed babies are less likely to be hospitalized with breathing infections.
    * Breastfed babies are less likely to become obese or have diabetes.
    * Breastfeeding may help prevent sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS).
    * Mothers who breastfeed find it easier to lose weight after pregnancy.
    * Breastfeeding may help lower the risk for breast and ovarian cancers, diabetes, and certain other diseases in mothers. 

Breastfeeding is also more convenient. You can breastfeed almost anywhere and
anytime your baby is hungry. You do not need to make formula before feeding,
worry about clean water, or carry it with you when you go out or travel. And
you save money on formula, which can cost $1,000 or more a year.

Breastfeeding is the natural, healthy choice for mom and baby.

## Preparing to Breastfeed

It is true that breastfeeding is not always easy and natural for moms and
babies.

It can take a little time for you both to get the hang of it. It is important
to know this up front, so that you can make sure you have all the support and
commitment you need if a problem does come up.

Skin to skin contact at birth will help you and your baby get a good start
with breastfeeding. Ask your health care provider to put your baby on your
chest, if everyone is healthy and stable after birth.

Being a new parent takes time, and feeding is no exception to this rule.

    * Breastfed babies will sometimes eat every hour for a while, before they take a long nap. Try to nap when your baby does.
    * If you need a longer break, you can also express milk (by hand or pump) and have someone else feed the breast milk to your baby.
    * After a few weeks, a breastfed baby's schedule becomes quite predictable.

You do not need to follow a special diet when you breastfeed. It is rare that
a baby will seem sensitive to certain foods, like spicy or gassy foods such as
cabbage. Speak with your baby's doctor if you think this could be the case.

## Breastfeeding and Work

It is easier than ever before to work and continue to breastfeed. Allowing
women to breastfeed often leads to less missed time due to illness, and
decreased turnover.

Hourly workers eligible for overtime pay who work for companies with more than
50 employees are required by law to be given the time and a place to pump.
This does not include salaried employees, though most employers will follow
these practices. Some states have even broader breastfeeding laws.

But not all mothers are able to pump their breasts on the job so they can
continue to breastfeed. Certain jobs, such as driving a bus or waiting tables,
may make it hard to stick to a regular pumping schedule. If you have more than
one job or if you travel for work, finding a place and time to pump and store
milk may be hard. And, while some employers provide a comfortable place for
mothers to pump milk, not all do.

## Overcoming Breastfeeding Problems

Certain problems can get in the way of breastfeeding for some moms:

    * Breast tenderness and nipple soreness. This is normal in the first week. It can also take a couple of weeks for mother and baby to learn how to breastfeed.
    * Breast engorgement or fullness.
    * Plugged milk ducts.
    * Not enough milk for the baby's needs. Though many women worry about this, it is rare that a mother will produce too little milk. 

It is well worth doing all you can to overcome breastfeeding challenges. Most
mothers find that the early struggles pass quickly, and they settle into a
workable and enjoyable feeding routine with their little one.

## Health and Safety Issues

If you are a smoker, it is still a good idea to breastfeed.

    * Breast milk can help to cancel out some of the risks to your baby from exposure to smoking.
    * If you smoke cigarettes, smoke after breastfeeding, so your baby gets the least amount of nicotine.

It is safe to breastfeed your baby if you have hepatitis B or hepatitis C. If
your nipples are cracked or bleeding, you should stop nursing. Express your
milk and throw it away until your breasts heal.

Mothers who should not breastfeed include those who:

    * Have HIV or AIDS, as they can pass the virus to their baby.
    * Are taking certain medicines needed to treat ongoing health problem. If you take medicines for a health problem, ask your provider if it is still safe to breastfeed.
    * Have an alcohol or drug addiction.

## Bottle Feeding Your Baby

There is no question that it is best to feed your baby breast milk for as long
as you possibly can, even if it is just for the first few months or so.

A small number of mothers are not able to breastfeed. This can be hard to
accept, but it does not make you a bad mom. Infant formula is still a healthy
choice, and your baby will get all the necessary nutrients.

If you choose to feed your baby formula, there are some benefits:

    *  **Anyone can feed your baby.** Grandparents or babysitters can feed your baby while you work or get some well-deserved time with your partner.
    *  **You can get round-the-clock help.** Your partner can help out with nighttime feedings so you can get more sleep. This can be a bonus for your partner, giving them the chance to bond early on with their little one. Keep in mind though, if you breastfeed, you can also pump your breasts so your partner can feed your baby breast milk.
    *  **You may not have to feed as often.** Babies digest formula slower, so you may have fewer feeding times. 

Remember that everything you do as a mother, your love, attention, and care,
will help give your baby the best start in life.

## References

Johnston M, Landers S, Noble L, Szucs K, Viehmann L; American Academy of
Pediatrics Policy Statement. Breastfeeding and the use of human milk.
_Pediatrics_. 2012;129(3):e827-e841. PMID: 22371471
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22371471.

Lawrence RM, Lawrence RA. The breast and the physiology of lactation. In:
Resnik R, Lockwood CJ, Moore TR, Greene MF, Copel JA, Silver RM, eds. _Creasy
and Resnik's Maternal-Fetal Medicine: Principles and Practice_. 8th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 11.

Parks EP, Shaikhkhalil A, Sainath NA, Mitchell JA. Feeding healthy infants,
children, and adolescents. In: Kliegman RM, St. Geme JW, Blum NJ, Shah SS,
Tasker RC, Wilson KM, eds. _Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics_. 21st ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 56.

Newton ER. Lactation and breastfeeding. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR, Simpson JL,
et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 24.

United States Department of Labor website. Wage and Hour Division. Break time
for nursing mothers. www.dol.gov/whd/nursingmothers. Accessed May 28, 2019

## Review Date 5/17/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Breastfeeding
    * Infant and Newborn Nutrition

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

