Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002452.htm    
                                Description: Health experts agree that breastfeeding is the healthiest option for both mom and baby. They recommend that babies feed only on breast milk for the first 6 months, and then continue to have breast milk    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Overcoming breastfeeding problems

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002452.htm

# Overcoming breastfeeding problems

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Health experts agree that breastfeeding is the healthiest option for both mom
and baby. They recommend that babies feed only on breast milk for the first 6
months, and then continue to have breast milk as a main part of their diet
until they are at least 1 to 2 years old.

It is true that breastfeeding is not always easy for moms and babies. It can
take a little time for you both to get the hang of it. It is important to know
this up front, so that you can make sure you have all the support and
commitment you need if a problem does come up.

## Recommendations

Breastfeeding (nursing) your baby can be a good experience for both the mother
and the baby. It takes time and practice to get comfortable with
breastfeeding. Things you can do to help the process include:

    * Start breastfeeding your baby in the hospital, right after birth.
    * Ask for help from a lactation consultant or nurse to get you started.
    * Read about breastfeeding before your baby is born. 

NIPPLE SORENESS

Most women are able to breastfeed with no pain. Sometimes, breast tenderness
and nipple soreness will occur in the first week. Getting help with a proper
latch right away from a breastfeeding support person can help this go away
more quickly.

Nipple soreness may be caused by many things, including:

    * Poor feeding techniques
    * Wrong position of the baby when breastfeeding
    * Not taking care of your nipples 

For many women, there is no clear cause of nipple soreness. A simple change in
your baby's position while feeding may ease soreness.

You might have sore nipples if your baby keeps sucking as they come off the
breast. You can help your baby learn to let go by gently inserting a finger
into the side of the mouth to break the suction.

Skin that is too dry or too moist can also cause nipple soreness.

    * Bras made from man-made (synthetic) fabrics may cause moisture to collect. These fabrics may increase sweating and slow evaporation.
    * Using soaps or solutions that remove natural skin oils can cause dry skin. Olive oil, expressed milk, and ointments containing lanolin can help soothe dry or cracking nipples. 

Some babies chew or bite on the nipples when they start teething.

    * Giving the baby something cold and wet to chew on a few minutes before breastfeeding can help avoid this problem. A clean, wet washcloth from the refrigerator works well.
    * Offer the baby another cold, wet washcloth before feeding on the other breast. 

BREAST ENGORGEMENT OR BREAST FULLNESS

Breast fullness is the slow buildup of blood and milk in the breast a few days
after birth. It is a sign that your milk is coming in. It will not prevent you
from breastfeeding.

Breast engorgement is caused by back up in the blood vessels in the breast.
The breasts are swollen, hard, and painful. The nipples may not stick out
enough to allow the baby to latch on correctly.

The let-down reflex is a normal part of breastfeeding. Milk made in the milk
glands is released into the milk ducts. Pain, stress, and anxiety can
interfere with the reflex. As a result, milk will build up. Treatment
includes:

    * Learning to relax and finding a comfortable position
    * Reducing distractions during nursing, performing a gentle massage, and applying heat to the breast 

Nursing often (8 times or more in 24 hours) and for at least 15 minutes at
each feeding can also prevent engorgement.

Other ways to relieve breast engorgement:

    * Feed more often or express milk manually or with a pump. Electric breast pumps work best.
    * Alternate between taking warm showers and using cold compresses to help ease the discomfort. 

NOT ENOUGH MILK FOR THE BABY'S NEEDS

Almost all women can produce enough milk for their babies. Though many women
are very worried about this, it is quite rare that a mother will produce too
little milk.

Making too little milk can happen for a few reasons, including using infant
formula to feed your baby in addition to breastfeeding. If you are worried
about how your baby is growing, you should talk with the baby's doctor right
away before starting to supplement with formula.

The mother's supply is based on the baby's demand for milk. Frequent feedings,
adequate rest, good nutrition, and drinking enough fluids can help maintain a
good milk supply.

![Breastfeeding](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/fullsize/17096.jpg)

PLUGGED MILK DUCT

A milk duct can become plugged. This may happen if the baby does not feed
well, if the mother skips feedings (common when the child is weaning), or if
the mother's bra is too tight. Symptoms of a plugged milk duct include:

    * Tenderness
    * Heat and redness in one area of the breast
    * A lump that can be felt close to the skin 

Sometimes, a tiny white dot can be seen at the opening of the duct on the
nipple. Massaging the area and putting gentle pressure on it can help to
remove the plug.

BREAST INFECTION

A breast infection (mastitis) causes aching muscles, fever, and a red, hot,
tender area onÂ one breast. Call your health care provider if you develop
these symptoms.

Treatment often includes:

    * Taking antibiotics for the infection
    * Applying moist, warm compresses to the infected area
    * Getting rest
    * Wearing a comfortable bra between feedings 

Continuing to nurse from the infected breast will help healing take place.
Breast milk is safe for the baby, even when you have a breast infection. This
will prevent further breast engorgement.

If nursing is too uncomfortable, you may try pumping or manual expression to
move milk out of the breast. You can try offering the unaffected breast first
until let-down occurs, to prevent discomfort. Talk to your provider about ways
to manage the problem.

THRUSH

Thrush is a common yeast infection that can be passed between the mother and
the baby during breastfeeding. The yeast ( _Candida albicans_ ) thrives in
warm, moist areas.

The baby's mouth and the mother's nipples are good places for this yeast to
grow. Yeast infections often occur during or after antibiotic treatments.

Symptoms of yeast infection in the mother are deep-pink nipples that are
tender or uncomfortable during, and right after, nursing. White patches and
increased redness in the baby's mouth are symptoms of a yeast infection in the
baby's mouth.

The baby may also have a diaper rash, a change in mood, and will want to
suckle more frequently. Call your provider to get a prescription for an
antifungal medicine for affected members of your family.

ILLNESS

If you develop a fever or illness, contact your provider. You can safely
continue breastfeeding during most illnesses. The baby is likely to benefit
from your antibodies.

## Alternative Names

Plugged milk ducts; Nipple soreness when breastfeeding; Breastfeeding -
overcoming problems; Let-down reflex

## Images

    * ![Breastfeeding](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/17096t.jpg)Breastfeeding

## References

Furman L, Schanler RJ. Breastfeeding. In: Gleason CA, Juul SE, eds. _Avery's
Diseases of the Newborn_. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 67.

Lawrence RA, Lawrence RM. Practical management of the mother-infant nursing
couple. In: Lawrence RA, Lawrence RM, eds. _Breastfeeding: A Guide for the
Medical Profession_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 8.

Newton ER. Lactation and breastfeeding. In: Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR, Simpson JL,
et al, eds. _Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies_. 7th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 24.

## Review Date 8/7/2019

Updated by: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by
David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Breastfeeding](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Breastfeeding_thumb.jpg)Breastfeeding
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

