Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003863.htm    
                                Description: An open pleural biopsy is a procedure to remove and examine the tissue that lines the inside of the chest. This tissue is called the pleura.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Open pleural biopsy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003863.htm

# Open pleural biopsy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An open pleural biopsy is a procedure to remove and examine the tissue that
lines the inside of the chest. This tissue is called the pleura.

## How the Test is Performed

An open pleural biopsy is done in the hospital using general anesthesia. This
means you will be asleep and pain free. A tube will be placed through your
mouth down your throat to help you breathe.

The surgery is done in the following way:

    * After cleaning the skin, the surgeon makes a small cut in the left or right side of the chest.
    * The ribs are gently separated.
    * A scope may be inserted to see the area to be biopsied.
    * Tissue is taken from inside the chest and sent to a laboratory for examination.
    * After surgery, the wound is closed with stitches.
    * Your surgeon may decide to leave a small plastic tube in your chest to prevent air and fluid from building up. 

The breathing tube may not be able to be removed right after surgery. So, you
may need to be on a breathing machine for some time.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You should tell the health care provider if you are pregnant, allergic to any
medicines, or if you have a bleeding problem. Be sure to tell your provider
about all the medicines you take, including herbs, supplements, and those
bought without a prescription.

Follow your surgeon's instructions for not eating or drinking before the
procedure.

## How the Test will Feel

When you wake up after the procedure, you will feel drowsy for several hours.

There will be some tenderness and pain where the surgical cut is located. Most
surgeons inject a long-acting local anesthetic at the surgical cut site so
that you will have very little pain afterward.

You may have a sore throat from the breathing tube. You can ease the pain by
eating ice chips.

You may have a tube in your chest to remove air. This will be removed later.

## Why the Test is Performed

This procedure is used when the surgeon needs a larger piece of tissue than
can be removed with a pleural needle biopsy. The test is most often done to
rule out mesothelioma, a type of lung tumor.

It is also done when there is fluid in the chest cavity, or when a direct view
of the pleura and the lungs is needed.

This procedure may also be done to examine a metastatic pleural tumor.Â This
is a type of cancer that has spread from another organ to the pleura.

## Normal Results

The pleura will be normal.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal findings may be due to:

    * Abnormal tissue growth (neoplasms)
    * Disease due to a virus, fungus, or parasite
    * Mesothelioma
    * Tuberculosis

## Risks

There is a slight chance of:

    * Air leak
    * Excess blood loss
    * Infection
    * Injury to the lung
    * Pneumothorax (collapsed lung)

## Alternative Names

Biopsy - open pleura

## Images

    * ![Lungs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1103t.jpg)Lungs
    * ![Incision for pleural tissue biopsy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8881t.jpg)Incision for pleural tissue biopsy
    * ![Pleural cavity](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9749t.jpg)Pleural cavity

## References

Chernecky CC, Berger BJ. Biopsy, site-specific - specimen. In: Chernecky CC,
Berger BJ, eds. _Laboratory Tests and Diagnostic Procedures_. 6th ed. St
Louis, MO: Elsevier Saunders; 2013:199-202.

Putnam JB. Lung, chest wall, pleura, and mediastinum. In: Townsend CM Jr,
Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 57.

## Review Date 10/23/2018

Updated by: Mary C. Mancini, MD, PhD, Director, Cardiothoracic Surgery,
Christus Highland Medical Center, Shreveport, LA. Review provided by VeriMed
Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Biopsy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Biopsy_thumb.jpg)Biopsy _Read more_

![Lung Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LungCancer_thumb.jpg)Lung Cancer
_Read more_

![Pleural
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PleuralDisorders_thumb.jpg)Pleural
Disorders _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

