Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000097.htm    
                                Description: Lung metastases are cancerous tumors that start somewhere else in the body and spread to the lungs.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Lung metastases

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000097.htm

# Lung metastases

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Lung metastases are cancerous tumors that start somewhere else in the body and
spread to the lungs.

## Causes

Metastatic tumors in the lungs are cancers that developed at other places in
the body (or other parts of the lungs). They then spread through the
bloodstream or lymphatic system to the lungs. It is different than lung cancer
that starts in the lungs.

Nearly any cancer can spread to the lungs. Common cancers include:

    * Bladder cancer
    * Breast cancer
    * Colorectal cancer
    * Kidney cancer
    * Melanoma
    * Ovarian cancer
    * Sarcoma
    * Thyroid cancer
    * Pancreatic cancer
    * Testicular cancer

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

    * Bloody sputum
    * Chest pain
    * Cough
    * Shortness of breath
    * Weakness
    * Weight loss

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will examine you and ask about your medical history
and symptoms. Tests that may be done include:

    * Bronchoscopy to view the airways
    * Chest CT scan
    * Chest x-ray
    * Cytologic studies of pleural fluid or sputum
    * Lung needle biopsy
    * Surgery to take a sample of tissue from the lungs (surgical lung biopsy) 

## Treatment

Chemotherapy is used to treat metastatic cancer to the lung. Surgery to remove
the tumors may be done when any of the following occurs:

    * The first (primary) tumor has been removed
    * The cancer has spread to only limited areas of the lung
    * The lung tumors can be completely removed with surgery 

However, the main tumor must be curable, and the person must be strong enough
to go through the surgery and recovery.

Other treatments include:

    * Radiation therapy
    * The placement of stents inside the airways
    * Laser therapy
    * Using local heat probes to destroy the area
    * Using very cold temperature to destroy the area
    * Placing chemotherapy medicines directly into the artery that supplies blood to the part of the lung containing the tumor

## Support Groups

You can ease the stress of illness by joining a support group where members
share common experiences and problems.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

A cure is unlikely in most cases of cancers that have spread to the lungs. But
the outlook depends on the main cancer. Some cancers, such as lymphoma, are
very treatable, and even curable. In rare cases, a person can live more than 5
years with metastatic cancer to the lungs.

You and your family may want to start thinking about end-of-life planning,
such as:

    * Palliative care
    * Hospice care
    * Advance care directives
    * Health care agents

## Possible Complications

Complications of metastatic tumors in the lungs may include:

    * Fluid between the lung and chest wall (pleural effusion), which can cause shortness of breath or pain when taking a deep breath
    * Further spread of the cancer
    * Side effects of chemotherapy or radiation therapy 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have a history of cancer and you develop:

    * Coughing up blood 
    * Persistent cough 
    * Shortness of breath
    * Unexplained weight loss 

## Prevention

Not all cancers can be prevented. However, many can be prevented by:

    * Eating healthyÂ foods
    * Exercising regularly
    * Limiting alcohol consumption
    * Not smoking 

## Alternative Names

Metastases to the lung; Metastatic cancer to the lung; Lung cancer -
metastases; Lung mets

## Images

    * ![Bronchoscopy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1077t.jpg)Bronchoscopy
    * ![Lung cancer - lateral chest x-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1182t.jpg)Lung cancer - lateral chest x-ray
    * ![Lung cancer - frontal chest X-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1183t.jpg)Lung cancer - frontal chest x-ray
    * ![Pulmonary nodule - front view chest x-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1610t.jpg)Pulmonary nodule - front view chest x-ray
    * ![Pulmonary nodule, solitary - CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1611t.jpg)Pulmonary nodule, solitary - CT scan
    * ![Lung with squamous cell cancer - CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1637t.jpg)Lung with squamous cell cancer - CT scan
    * ![Respiratory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9248t.jpg)Respiratory system

## References

Arenberg DA, Pickens A. Metastatic malignant tumors. In: Broaddus VC, Mason
RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory
Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 55.

Putnam JB. Lung, chest wall, pleura, and mediastinum. In: Townsend CM Jr,
Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 57.

Ripley RT, Rusch VW. Lung metastases. In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO,
Doroshow JH, Kastan MB, Tepper JE, eds. _Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 52.

## Review Date 5/14/2018

Updated by: Preeti Sudheendra, MD, oncologist at the MD Anderson Cancer Center
at Cooper, Camden, NJ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Lung Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LungCancer_thumb.jpg)Lung Cancer
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

