Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003794.htm    
                                Description: A chest MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) scan is an imaging test that uses powerful magnetic fields and radio waves to create pictures of the chest (thoracic area). It does not use radiation (x-rays).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Chest MRI

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003794.htm

# Chest MRI

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A chest MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) scan is an imaging test that uses
powerful magnetic fields and radio waves to create pictures of the chest
(thoracic area). It does not use radiation (x-rays).

## How the Test is Performed

The test is done in the following way:

    * You may be asked to wear a hospital gown or clothing without metal fasteners (such as sweatpants and a t-shirt). Certain types of metal can cause blurry images or be dangerous to have on in the scanner room.
    * You lie on a narrow table, which slides into the large tunnel-shaped scanner.
    * You must be still during the exam, because movement causes blurred images. You may be told to hold your breath for short periods. 

Some exams require a special dye called contrast. The dye is usually given
before the test through a vein (IV) in your hand or forearm. The dye helps the
radiologist see certain areas more clearly. A blood test to measure your
kidney function may be done before the test. This is to make sure your kidneys
are healthy enough to filter the contrast.

During the MRI, the person who operates the machine will watch you from
another room. The test most often lasts 30 to 60 minutes, but it may take
longer.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You may be asked not to eat or drink anything for 4 to 6 hours before the
scan.

Tell your provider if you are claustrophobic (afraid of closed spaces). You
may be given a medicine to help you feel sleepy and less anxious. Your
provider may suggest an "open" MRI, in which the machine is not as close to
your body.

Before the test, tell your health care provider if you have:

    * Brain aneurysm clips
    * Artificial heart valves
    * Heart defibrillator or pacemaker
    * Inner ear (cochlear) implants
    * Kidney disease or are on dialysis (you may not be able to receive contrast)
    * Recently placed artificial joints
    * Vascular stents
    * Worked with sheet metal in the past (you may need tests to check for metal pieces in your eyes)

The MRI contains strong magnets, so metal objects are not allowed into the
room with the MRI scanner. This is because there is a risk that they will be
drawn from your body toward the scanner. Examples of metal objects you will
need to remove are:

    * Pens, pocket knives, and eyeglasses
    * Items such as jewelry, watches, credit cards, and hearing aids
    * Pins, hairpins, and metal zippers
    * Removable dental work

## How the Test will Feel

An MRI exam causes no pain. If you have trouble lying still or are very
nervous, you may be given medicine to relax you. Too much movement can blur
MRI images and cause errors when the doctor looks at the images.

The table may be hard or cold, but you can ask for a blanket or pillow. The
machine produces loud thumping and humming noises when turned on. You can wear
ear plugs to help reduce the noise.

An intercom in the room allows you to speak to someone at any time. Some MRIs
have televisions and special headphones that you can use to help the time
pass.

There is no recovery time, unless you were given a medicine to relax. After an
MRI scan, you can resume your normal diet, activity, and medicines.

## Why the Test is Performed

A chest MRI provides detailed pictures of tissues within the chest area.

A chest MRI may be done to:

    * Provide an alternative to angiography, or avoid repeated exposure to radiation
    * Clarify findings from earlier x-rays or CT scans
    * Diagnose abnormal growths in the chest
    * Evaluate blood flow
    * Show lymph nodes and blood vessels
    * Show the structures of the chest from many angles
    * See if cancer in the chest has spread to other areas of the body (this is called staging -- it helps guide future treatment and follow-up, and gives you an idea of what to expect in the future)
    * Detect tumors

## Normal Results

A normal result means your chest area appears normal.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

An abnormal chest MRI may be due to:

    * A tear in the wall, an abnormal widening or ballooning, or narrowing of the major artery carrying blood out of the heart (aorta) 
    * Other abnormal changes of the major blood vessels in the lungs or chest
    * Buildup of blood or fluid around the heart or the lungs
    * Lung cancer or cancer that has spread to the lungs from elsewhere in the body
    * Cancer or tumors of the heart
    * Cancer or tumors of the chest, such as a thymus tumor
    * Disease in which the heart muscle becomes weakened, stretched, or has another structural problem (cardiomyopathy)Â 
    * Collection of fluid around the lungs (pleural effusion)
    * Damage to, and widening of the large airways of the lungs (bronchiectasis)
    * Enlarged lymph nodesÂ 
    * Infection of the heart tissue or heart valve
    * Esophageal cancer
    * Lymphoma in the chest
    * Birth defects of the heart
    * Tumors, nodules, or cysts in the chestÂ 

## Risks

MRI uses no radiation. To date, no side effects from the magnetic fields and
radio waves have been reported.

The most common type of contrast (dye) used is gadolinium. It is very safe.
Allergic reactions to the substance rarely occur. However, gadolinium can be
harmful to people with kidney problems who need dialysis. If you have kidney
problems, tell your provider before the test.

The strong magnetic fields created during an MRI can cause heart pacemakers
and other implants not to work as well. It can also cause a piece of metal
inside your body to move or shift.

## Considerations

Currently, MRI is not considered a valuable tool for spotting or monitoring
slight changes in lung tissue. The lungs contain mostly air and are hard to
image. CT scan tends to be better for monitoring these changes.

Disadvantages of MRI include:

    * High cost
    * Long length of the scan
    * Sensitivity to movement 

## Alternative Names

Nuclear magnetic resonance - chest; Magnetic resonance imaging - chest; NMR -
chest; MRI of the thorax; Thoracic MRI

## Patient Instructions

    * Abdominal aortic aneurysm repair - open - discharge 

## Images

    * ![MRI scans](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/23212t.jpg)MRI scans
    * ![Vertebra, thoracic \(mid back\)](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1774t.jpg)Vertebra, thoracic (mid back)
    * ![Thoracic organs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8964t.jpg)Thoracic organs

## References

Ackman JB. Thoracic magnetic resonance imaging: technique and approach to
diagnosis. In: Shephard J-AO, ed. T _horacic Imaging: The Requisites_. 3rd ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 3.

Gotway MB, Panse PM, Gruden JF, Elicker BM. Thoracic radiology: noninvasive
diagnostic imaging. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray
and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 18.

## Review Date 7/20/2018

Updated by: Allen J. Blaivas, DO, Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care, and
Sleep Medicine, VA New Jersey Health Care System, Clinical Assistant
Professor, Rutgers New Jersey Medical School, East Orange, NJ. Review provided
by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical
Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Aneurysms](https://medlineplus.gov/images/AneurysmsandAorticAneurysm_thumb.jpg)Aortic
Aneurysm _Read more_

![Chest Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChestInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Chest
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![Lung Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LungCancer_thumb.jpg)Lung Cancer
_Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

