Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000117.htm    
                                Description: Metastatic pleural tumor is a type of cancer that has spread from another organ to the thin membrane (pleura) surrounding the lungs.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Metastatic pleural tumor

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000117.htm

# Metastatic pleural tumor

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Metastatic pleural tumor is a type of cancer that has spread from another
organ to the thin membrane (pleura) surrounding the lungs.

## Causes

The blood and lymph systems can carry cancer cells to other organs in the
body. There, they can produce new growths or tumors.

Almost any type of cancer can spread to the lungs and involve the pleura.

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include any of the following:

    * Chest pain, especially when taking a deep breath
    * Cough
    * Wheezing
    * Coughing up blood (hemoptysis)
    * General discomfort, uneasiness, or ill feeling (malaise)
    * Shortness of breath
    * Weight loss 
    * Loss of appetite

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will examine you and ask about your medical history
and symptoms. Tests that may be done include:

    * Chest x-ray
    * CT or MRI scan of the chest 
    * Procedure to remove and examine the pleuraÂ (open pleural biopsy)
    * Test that examines a sample of fluid that has collected in the pleural spaceÂ (pleural fluid analysis)
    * Procedure that uses a needle to remove a sample of the pleuraÂ (pleural needle biopsy)
    * Removal of fluid from around the lungs (thoracentesis) 

## Treatment

Pleural tumors usually can't be removed with surgery. The original (primary)
cancer should be treated. Chemotherapy and radiation therapy may be used,
depending on the type of primary cancer.

Your provider may recommend thoracentesis if you have a lot of fluid
collecting around your lungs and you have shortness of breath or low blood
oxygen levels.Â After the fluid is removed, your lung will be able to expand
more. This allows you to breathe easier.

To prevent the fluid from collecting again, medicine may be placed directly
into your chest space through a tube, called a catheter. Or, your surgeon may
spray a medicine or talc on the lung surface during the procedure. This helps
seal the space around your lungs to prevent the fluid from returning.

## Support Groups

You can ease the stress of illness by joining a support group where members
share common experiences and problems.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The 5-year survival rate (number of people who live for more than 5 years
after diagnosis) is less than 25% for people with pleural tumors that have
spread from other parts of the body.

## Possible Complications

Health problems that may result include:

    * Side effects of chemotherapy or radiation therapy
    * Continued spread of the cancer 

## Prevention

Early detection and treatment of primary cancers may prevent metastatic
pleural tumors in some people.

## Alternative Names

Tumor - metastatic pleural

## Images

    * ![Pleural space](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9176t.jpg)Pleural space

## References

Arenberg DA, Pickens A. Metastatic malignant tumors. In: Broaddus VC, Mason
RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory
Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 55.

Broaddus VC, Robinson BWS. Pleural tumors. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst
JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 82.

Putnam JB. Lung, chest wall, pleura, and mediastinum. In: Townsend CM Jr,
Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 57.

## Review Date 4/2/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in Hematology
and Medical Oncology, Longstreet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Lung Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LungCancer_thumb.jpg)Lung Cancer
_Read more_

![Pleural
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PleuralDisorders_thumb.jpg)Pleural
Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

