Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000071.htm    
                                Description: A solitary pulmonary nodule is a round or oval spot (lesion) in the lung that is seen with a chest x-ray or CT scan.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Solitary pulmonary nodule

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000071.htm

# Solitary pulmonary nodule

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A solitary pulmonary nodule is a round or oval spot (lesion) in the lung that
is seen with a chest x-ray or CT scan.

## Causes

More than half of all solitary pulmonary nodules are noncancerous (benign).
Benign nodules have many causes, including scars and past infections.

Infectious granulomas (which are formed by cells as a reaction to a past
infection) cause most benign lesions. Common infections that often result in
granulomas or other healed scars include:

    * Tuberculosis (TB) or exposure to TB
    * Fungus, such as aspergillosis, coccidioidomycosis, cryptococcosis, orÂ histoplasmosis

Primary lung cancer is the most common cause of cancerous (malignant)
pulmonary nodules. This is cancer that starts in the lung.

## Symptoms

A solitary pulmonary nodule itself rarely causes symptoms.

## Exams and Tests

A solitary pulmonary nodule is most often found on a chest x-ray or chest CT
scan. These imaging tests are often done for other symptoms or reasons.

YourÂ health care provider must decide whether the nodule in your lung is most
likely benign or of concern. A nodule more is likely benign if:

    * The nodule is small, has a smooth border, and has a solid and even appearance on an x-ray or CT scan.
    * You are young and do not smoke.

Your provider may then choose to monitor the nodule over time by repeating a
series of x-rays or CT scans.

    * Repeat chest x-rays or chest CT scans are the most common way to monitor the nodule. Sometimes, lung PET scans may be done.
    * If repeated x-rays show that the nodule size has not changed in 2 years, it is most likely benign and a biopsy is not needed.

YourÂ provider may choose to biopsy the nodule to rule out cancer if:

    * You are a smoker.
    * You have other symptoms of lung cancer.
    * The nodule has grown in size or has changed when compared to earlier images.

A lung needle biopsy may be done by placing a needle directlyÂ through the
wall of your chest, or during procedures calledÂ bronchoscopy or
mediastinoscopy.

Tests to rule out TB and other infections may also be done.

## Treatment

Ask your provider about the risks of having a biopsy versus monitoring the
size of the nodule with regular x-rays or CT scans. Treatment may be based on
the results of the biopsy or other tests.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outlook is usually good if the nodule is benign. If the nodule does not
grow larger over a 2-year period, often nothing more needs to be done.

## Alternative Names

Lung cancer - solitary nodule; Infectious granuloma - pulmonary nodule; SPN

## Images

    * ![Adenocarcinoma - chest x-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1597t.jpg)Adenocarcinoma - chest x-ray
    * ![Pulmonary nodule - front view chest x-ray](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1610t.jpg)Pulmonary nodule - front view chest x-ray
    * ![Pulmonary nodule, solitary - CT scan](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1611t.jpg)Pulmonary nodule, solitary - CT scan
    * ![Respiratory system](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/9248t.jpg)Respiratory system

## References

Bueno J, Landeras L, Chung JH. Updated Fleischner Society guidelines for
managing incidental pulmonary nodules: common questions and challenging
scenarios. _Radiographics_. 2018;38(5):1337-1350. PMID: 30207935
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30207935.

Gotway MB, Panse PM, Gruden JF, Elicker BM. Thoracic radiology: noninvasive
diagnostic imaging. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray
and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 18.

Reed JC. Solitary pulmonary nodule. In: Reed JC, ed. _Chest Radiology:
Patterns and Differential Diagnoses._ 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier;
2018:chap 20.

## Review Date 7/8/2019

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Lung Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LungCancer_thumb.jpg)Lung Cancer
_Read more_

![Lung Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LungDiseases_thumb.jpg)Lung
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

