Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003862.htm    
                                Description: Pleural biopsy is a procedure to remove a sample of the tissue lining the lungs and the inside of the chest wall to check for disease or infection.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Pleural needle biopsy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003862.htm

# Pleural needle biopsy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Pleural biopsy is a procedure to remove a sample of the tissue lining the
lungs and the inside of the chest wall to check for disease or infection.

## How the Test is Performed

This test may be done in the hospital. It may also be done at a clinic or
doctor's office.

The procedure involves the following:

    * During the procedure, you are sitting up.
    * Your health care provider cleanses the skin at the biopsy site.
    * Numbing drug (anesthetic) is injected through the skin and into the lining of the lungs and chest wall (pleural membrane).
    * A larger, hollow needle is then placed gently through the skin into the chest cavity. Sometimes, the provider uses ultrasound or CT imaging to guide the needle.
    * A smaller cutting needle inside the hollow one is used to collect tissue samples. During this part of the procedure, you are asked to sing, hum, or say "eee." This helps prevent air from getting into the chest cavity, which can cause the lung to collapse (pneumothorax). Usually, three or more biopsy samples are taken.
    * When the test finished, a bandage is placed over the biopsy site. 

In some cases, pleural biopsy is done using a fiberoptic scope. The scope
allows the doctor to view the area of the pleura from which the biopsies are
taken.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You will have blood tests before the biopsy. You will likely have a chest
x-ray.

## How the Test will Feel

When the local anesthetic is injected, you may feel a brief prick (like when
an intravenous line is placed) and a burning sensation. When the biopsy needle
is inserted, you may feel pressure. As the needle is being removed, you may
feel tugging.

## Why the Test is Performed

Pleural biopsy is usually done to find the cause of a collection of fluid
around the lung (pleural effusion) or other abnormality of the pleural
membrane. Pleural biopsy can diagnose tuberculosis, cancer, and other
diseases.

If this type of pleural biopsy is not enough to make a diagnosis, you may need
a surgical biopsy of the pleura.

## Normal Results

Pleural tissues appear normal, without signs of inflammation, infection, or
cancer.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may reveal cancer (including primary lung cancer, malignant
mesothelioma, and metastatic pleural tumor), tuberculosis, other infections,
or collagen vascular disease.

## Risks

There is a slight chance of the needle puncturing the wall of the lung, which
can partially collapse the lung. This usually gets better on its own.
Sometimes, a chest tube is needed to drain the air and expand the lung.

There is also a chance of excessive blood loss.

## Considerations

If a closed pleural biopsy is not enough to make a diagnosis, you may need a
surgical biopsy of the pleura.

## Alternative Names

Closed pleural biopsy; Needle biopsy of the pleura

## Images

    * ![Pleural biopsy](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8898t.jpg)Pleural biopsy

## References

Klein JS, Bhave AD. Thoracic radiology: invasive diagnostic imaging and image-
guided interventions. In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray
and Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 19.

Verschakelen JA, Gleeson F. The chest wall, pleura, diaphragm and
intervention. In: Adam A, Dixon AK, Gillard JH Schaefer-Prokop CM, eds.
_Grainger & Allison's Diagnostic Radiology: A Textbook of Medical Imaging_.
6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone; 2015:chap 10.

## Review Date 7/11/2017

Updated by: Michael M. Phillips, MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, The
George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC. Also reviewed
by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director,
and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Biopsy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Biopsy_thumb.jpg)Biopsy _Read more_

![Lung Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LungCancer_thumb.jpg)Lung Cancer
_Read more_

![Pleural
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/PleuralDisorders_thumb.jpg)Pleural
Disorders _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

