Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007342.htm    
                                Description: A lung positron emission tomography (PET) scan is an imaging test. It uses a radioactive substance (called a tracer) to look for disease in the lungs such as lung cancer.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Lung PET scan

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007342.htm

# Lung PET scan

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A lung positron emission tomography (PET) scan is an imaging test. It uses a
radioactive substance (called a tracer) to look for disease in the lungs such
as lung cancer.

Unlike magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and computed tomography (CT) scans,
which reveal the structure of the lungs, a PET scan shows how well the lungs
and their tissues are working.

## How the Test is Performed

A PET scan requires a small amount of tracer. The tracer is given through a
vein (IV), usually on the inside of your elbow. It travels through your blood
and collects in organs and tissues. The tracer helps the doctor (radiologist)
see certain areas or diseases more clearly.

You will need to wait nearby as the tracer is absorbed by your body. This
usually takes about 1 hour.

Then, you will lie on a narrow table, which slides into a large tunnel-shaped
scanner. The PET scanner detects signals from the tracer. A computer changes
the results into 3-D pictures. The images are displayed on a monitor for your
doctor to read.

You must lie still during test. Too much movement can blur images and cause
errors.

The test takes about 90 minutes.

PET scans are performed along with a CT scan. This is because the combined
information from each scan provides a more complete understanding of the
health problem. This combination scan is called a PET/CT.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You may be asked not to eat anything for 4 to 6 hours before the scan. You
will be able to drink water.

Tell your health care provider if:

    * You are afraid of tight spaces (have claustrophobia). You may be given a medicine to help you relax and feel less anxious.
    * You are pregnant or think you might be pregnant.
    * You have any allergies to injected dye (contrast).
    * You take insulin for diabetes. You will need special preparation. 

Tell your provider about the medicines you are taking. These include ones
bought without a prescription. Some medicines can interfere with the test
results.

## How the Test will Feel

You may feel a sharp sting when the needle containing the tracer is placed
into your vein.

A PET scan causes no pain. The table may be hard or cold, but you can request
a blanket or pillow.

An intercom in the room allows you to speak to someone at any time.

There is no recovery time, unless you were given a medicine to relax.

## Why the Test is Performed

This test may be done to:

    * Help look for lung cancer, when other imaging tests do not give a clear picture
    * See if lung cancer has spread to other areas of the lungs or body, when deciding on the best treatment
    * Help determine if a growth in the lungs (seen on a CT scan) is cancerous or not
    * Determine how well cancer treatment is working 

## Normal Results

A normal result means the scan did not show any problems in the size, shape,
or function of the lungs.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal results may be due to:

    * Lung cancer or cancer of another area of the body that has spread to the lungs
    * Infection
    * Inflammation of the lungs due to other causes

Blood sugar or insulin level may affect the test results in people with
diabetes.

## Risks

The amount of radiation used in a PET scan is low. It is about the same amount
of radiation as in most CT scans. Also, the radiation does not last for very
long in your body.

Women who are pregnant or are breastfeeding should let their provider know
before having this test. Infants and babies developing in the womb are more
sensitive to the effects of radiation because their organs are still growing.

It is possible, although very unlikely, to have an allergic reaction to the
radioactive substance. Some people have pain, redness, or swelling at the
injection site. This soon goes away.

## Alternative Names

Chest PET scan; Lung positron emission tomography; PET - chest; PET - lung;
PET - tumor imaging; PET/CT - lung; Solitary pulmonary nodule - PET

## References

Padley SPG, Lazoura O. Pulmonary neoplasms. In: Adam A, Dixon AK, Gillard JH,
Schaefer-Prokop CMÂ , eds. _Grainger & Allison's Diagnostic Radiology: A
Textbook of Medical Imaging_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill
Livingstone; 2015:chap 15.

Vansteenkiste JF, Deroose C, Dooms C. Positron emission tomography. In:
Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook of
Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap
21.

## Review Date 10/21/2017

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Lung Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LungCancer_thumb.jpg)Lung Cancer
_Read more_

![Lung Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LungDiseases_thumb.jpg)Lung
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

