Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/lung-cancer-tumor-markers/    
                                Description: Lung cancer tumor markers are substances produced by tumor cells. Normal cells can turn into tumor cells due to a genetic mutation. Knowing whether or not you have the genetic mutation can help your provider choose the most effective treatment for you. Learn more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Tests ->

Lung Cancer Tumor Markers

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/lung-cancer-tumor-markers/

# Lung Cancer Tumor Markers

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

## What are lung cancer tumor marker tests?

Lung cancer tumor markers are substances produced by tumor cells. Normal cells
can turn into tumor cells due to a genetic mutation, a change in the normal
function of genes. Genes are the basic units of heredity passed down from your
mother and father.

Some genetic mutations can be inherited from your parents. Others are acquired
later in life due to environmental or lifestyle factors. The mutations that
cause lung cancer are usually due to acquired, also known as somatic,
mutations. These mutations are most often, though not always caused by a
history of tobacco smoking. A genetic mutation can cause a lung tumor to
spread and grow into cancer.

There are different types of mutations that cause lung cancer. A lung cancer
tumor marker test looks for the specific mutation that may be causing your
cancer. The most commonly tested lung cancer markers include mutations in the
following genes:

    * EGFR, which makes a protein involved in cell division
    * KRAS, which helps control the growth of tumors
    * ALK, which is involved in cell growth

Not all lung cancers are caused by genetic mutations. But if your cancer is
caused by a mutation, you may be able to take a medicine that's designed to
attack your specific type of mutated cancer cells. This is called targeted
therapy.

Other names: Lung cancer targeted gene panel

## What are they used for?

Tests for lung cancer tumor markers are most often used to find out which, if
any, genetic mutation is causing your lung cancer. Lung cancer markers may be
tested individually or grouped together in one test.

## Why do I need a lung cancer tumor marker test?

You may need a lung cancer tumor marker test if you have been diagnosed with a
type of lung cancer called non-small cell lung cancer. This type of cancer is
more likely to have a genetic mutation that will respond to targeted therapy.

Targeted therapy is often more effective and causes fewer side effects than
chemotherapy or radiation. But it's important to know which mutation you have.
Targeted therapy medicines that are effective in someone with one type of
mutation, might not work or may be dangerous to someone with a different
mutation or no mutation.

## What happens during a lung cancer tumor marker test?

A health care provider will need to take a small sample of the tumor in a
procedure called a biopsy. It may be one of two types of biopsies:

    *  **Fine needle aspiration biopsy,** which uses a very thin needle to remove a sample of cells or fluid
    *  **Core needle biopsy,** which uses a larger needle to remove a sample

Fine needle aspiration and core needle biopsies usually include the following
steps:

    * You will lay on your side or sit on an exam table.
    * An x-ray or other imaging device may be used to locate the desired biopsy site. The skin will be marked.
    * A health care provider will clean the biopsy site and inject it with an anesthetic so you won't feel any pain during the procedure.
    * Once the area is numb, the provider will make a small incision (cut) and insert either a fine aspiration needle or core biopsy needle into the lung. Then he or she will remove a sample of tissue from the biopsy site.
    * You may feel a little pressure when the needle enters the lung.
    * Pressure will be applied to the biopsy site until the bleeding stops.
    * Your provider will apply a sterile bandage at the biopsy site.

## Will I need to do anything to prepare for the test?

You may need to fast (not eat or drink) for several hours before the
procedure. Talk to your health care provider if you have any questions about
preparing for your test.

## Are there any risks to the test?

You may have a little bruising or bleeding at the biopsy site. You may also
have a little discomfort at the site for a day or two.

## What do the results mean?

If your results show you have one of the lung cancer markers that may respond
well to targeted therapy, your provider may start you on treatment right away.
If your results show you do not have one of these lung cancer markers, you and
your provider may discuss other treatment options.

Genetic testing takes longer than many other types of lab tests. You may not
get your results for a few weeks.

If you have questions about your results, talk to your health care provider.

Learn more about laboratory tests, references ranges, and understanding
results.

## Is there anything else I need to know about lung cancer tumor marker tests?

If you have lung cancer, it's important to see your health care provider
regularly throughout your treatment and afterward. Lung cancer can be
difficult to treat, even if you are on targeted therapy. Close monitoring with
frequent checkups, and periodic x-rays and scans is recommended for the first
five years after treatment, and yearly for the rest of your life.

## References

    1. American Cancer Society [Internet]. Atlanta: American Cancer Society Inc.; c2018. Types of biopsies used to look for cancer [updated 2015 Jul 30; cited 2018 Jul 13]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.org/treatment/understanding-your-diagnosis/tests/testing-biopsy-and-cytology-specimens-for-cancer/biopsy-types.html
    2. American Lung Association [Internet]. Chicago: American Lung Association; c2018. Lung Cancer Tumor Testing [cited 2018 Jul 13]; [about 5 screens]. Available from: http://www.lung.org/lung-health-and-diseases/lung-disease-lookup/lung-cancer/learn-about-lung-cancer/how-is-lung-cancer-diagnosed/lung-cancer-tumor-testing.html
    3. Cancer.Net [Internet]. Alexandria (VA): American Society of Clinical Oncology; 2005â2018. Biopsy; 2018 Jan [cited 2018 Jul 13]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.net/navigating-cancer-care/diagnosing-cancer/tests-and-procedures/biopsy
    4. Cancer.Net [Internet]. Alexandria (VA): American Society of Clinical Oncology; 2005â2018. Tumor Marker Tests; 2018 May [cited 2018 Jul 13]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.net/navigating-cancer-care/diagnosing-cancer/tests-and-procedures/tumor-marker-tests
    5. Cancer.Net [Internet]. Alexandria (VA): American Society of Clinical Oncology; 2005â2018. Understanding Targeted Therapy; 2018 May [cited 2018 Jul 13]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.net/navigating-cancer-care/how-cancer-treated/personalized-and-targeted-therapies/understanding-targeted-therapy
    6. Cancer.Net [Internet]. Alexandria (VA): American Society of Clinical Oncology; 2005â2018. What You Need to Know About Lung Cancer; 2018 Jun 14 [cited 2018 Jul 13]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.net/blog/2018-06/what-you-need-know-about-lung-cancer
    7. Johns Hopkins Medicine [Internet]. The Johns Hopkins University; Johns Hopkins Medicine; Health Library: Lung Biopsy [cited 2018 Jul 13]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.hopkinsmedicine.org/healthlibrary/test_procedures/pulmonary/lung_biopsy_92,P07750
    8. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. ALK Mutation (Gene Rearrangement) [updated 2017 Dec 4; cited 2018 Jul 13]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/alk-mutation-gene-rearrangement
    9. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. EGFR Mutation Testing [updated 2017 Nov 9; cited 2018 Jul 13]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/egfr-mutation-testing
    10. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. Genetic Tests for Targeted Cancer Therapy [updated 2018 Jun 18; cited 2018 Jul 13]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/genetic-tests-targeted-cancer-therapy
    11. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. KRAS Mutation [updated 2017 Nov 5; cited 2018 Jul 13]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/kras-mutation
    12. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. Lung Cancer [updated 2017 Dec 4; cited 2018 Jul 13]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/conditions/lung-cancer
    13. Lab Tests Online [Internet]. Washington D.C: American Association for Clinical Chemistry; c2001â2018. Tumor Markers [updated 2018 Feb 14; cited 2018 Jul 13]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://labtestsonline.org/tests/tumor-markers
    14. Mayo Clinic: Mayo Medical Laboratories [Internet]. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; c1995â2018. Test ID: LUNGP: Lung Cancer-Targeted Gene Panel, Tumor: Clinical and Interpretive [cited 2018 Jul 13]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.mayomedicallaboratories.com/test-catalog/Clinical+and+Interpretive/65144
    15. Merck Manual Consumer Version [Internet]. Kenilworth (NJ): Merck & Co. Inc.; c2018. Lung Cancer [cited 2018 Jul 13]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://www.merckmanuals.com/home/lung-and-airway-disorders/tumors-of-the-lungs/lung-cancer
    16. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms: gene [cited 2018 Jul 13]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/publications/dictionaries/cancer-terms/search?contains=false&q=gene
    17. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Treatment (PDQÂ®)âPatient Version [updated 2018 May 2; cited 2018 Jul 13]; [about 3 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/types/lung/patient/non-small-cell-lung-treatment-pdq
    18. National Cancer Institute [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Tumor Markers [cited 2018 Jul 13]; [about 4 screens]. Available from: https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/diagnosis-staging/diagnosis/tumor-markers-fact-sheet
    19. NIH U.S. National Library of Medicine: Genetics Home Reference [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; ALK gene; 2018 Jul 10 [cited 2018 Jul 13]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ghr.nlm.nih.gov/gene/ALK
    20. NIH U.S. National Library of Medicine: Genetics Home Reference [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; EGFR gene; 2018 Jul 10 [cited 2018 Jul 13]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ghr.nlm.nih.gov/gene/EGFR
    21. NIH U.S. National Library of Medicine: Genetics Home Reference [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; KRAS gene; 2018 Jul 10 [cited 2018 Jul 13]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ghr.nlm.nih.gov/gene/KRAS
    22. NIH U.S. National Library of Medicine: Genetics Home Reference [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Lung cancer; 2018 Jul 10 [cited 2018 Jul 13]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ghr.nlm.nih.gov/condition/lung-cancer
    23. NIH U.S. National Library of Medicine: Genetics Home Reference [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; What is a gene mutation and how do mutations occur?; 2018 Jul 10 [cited 2018 Jul 13]; [about 2 screens]. Available from: https://ghr.nlm.nih.gov/primer/mutationsanddisorders/genemutation

## Related Health Topics

    * Cancer
    * Cancer Chemotherapy
    * Genetic Disorders
    * Lung Cancer
    * Radiation Therapy
    * Smoking

## Related Lab Test Information

    * BRAF Genetic Test
    * How to Understand Your Lab Results
    * TP53 Genetic Test
    * Tumor Marker Tests

The medical information provided is for informational purposes only, and is
not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or
treatment. Please contact your health care provider with questions you may
have regarding medical conditions or the interpretation of test results.

In the event of a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 27 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

