Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007194.htm    
                                Description: Non-small cell lung cancer is the most common type of lung cancer. It usually grows and spreads more slowly than small cell lung cancer.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Non-small cell lung cancer

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007194.htm

# Non-small cell lung cancer

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Non-small cell lung cancer is the most common type of lung cancer. It usually
grows and spreads more slowly than small cell lung cancer.

There are three common types of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC):

    * Adenocarcinomas are often found in an outer area of the lung.
    * Squamous cell carcinomas are usually found in the center of the lung next to an air tube (bronchus).
    * Large cell carcinomas can occur in any part of the lung.

## Causes

Smoking causes most cases (around 90%) of lung cancer. The risk depends on the
number of cigarettes you smoke each day and for how long you have smoked.
Being around the smoke from other people (secondhand smoke) also raises your
risk of lung cancer. But some people who have never smoked do develop lung
cancer.

Research shows that smoking marijuana may help cancer cells grow. But there is
no direct link between smoking marijuana and developing lung cancer.

Constant exposure to high levels of air pollution and drinking water that has
a high level of arsenic can increase your risk of lung cancer. A history of
radiation therapy to the lungs can also increase risk.

Working with or near cancer-causing chemicals or materials can also increase
the risk of developing lung cancer. Such chemicals include:

    * Asbestos
    * Chemicals such as uranium, beryllium, vinyl chloride, nickel chromates, coal products, mustard gas, chloromethyl ethers, gasoline, and diesel exhaust
    * Certain alloys, paints, pigments, and preservatives
    * Products using chloride and formaldehyde 

## Symptoms

Symptoms may include:

    * Chest pain
    * Cough that does not go away
    * Coughing up blood
    * Fatigue
    * Loss of appetite
    * Losing weight without trying
    * Shortness of breath
    * Wheezing

Early lung cancer may not cause any symptoms.

Other symptoms that may be due to NSCLC, often in the late stages:

    * Bone pain or tenderness
    * Eyelid drooping
    * Hoarseness or changing voice
    * Joint pain
    * Nail problems
    * Swallowing difficulty
    * Swelling of the face
    * Weakness
    * Shoulder pain or weakness 

These symptoms can be due to other, less serious conditions. It is important
to talk to your health care provider if you have symptoms.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and ask about your
medical history. You will be asked if you smoke, and if so, how much you smoke
and for how long you have smoked. You will also be asked about other things
that may have put you at risk of lung cancer, such as exposure to certain
chemicals.

Tests that may be done to diagnose lung cancer or see if it has spread
include:

    * Bone scan
    * Chest x-ray
    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * CT scan of the chest
    * MRI of the chest
    * Positron emission tomography (PET) scan
    * Sputum test to look for cancer cells
    * Thoracentesis (sampling of fluid buildup around the lung)

In most cases, a piece of tissue is removed from your lungs for examination
under a microscope. This is called a biopsy. There are several ways to do
this:

    * Bronchoscopy combined with biopsy
    * CT-scan-directed needle biopsy
    * Endoscopic esophageal ultrasound (EUS) with biopsy
    * Mediastinoscopy with biopsy
    * Open lung biopsy
    * Pleural biopsy

If the biopsy shows cancer, more imaging tests are done to find out the stage
of the cancer. Stage means how big the tumor is and how far it has spread.
NSCLC is divided into 5 stages:

    * Stage 0 -- The cancer has not spread beyond the inner lining of the lung.
    * Stage I -- The cancer is small and has not spread to the lymph nodes.
    * Stage II -- The cancer has spread to some lymph nodes near the original tumor.
    * Stage III -- The cancer has spread to nearby tissue or to far away lymph nodes.
    * Stage IV -- The cancer has spread to other organs of the body, such as the other lung, brain, or liver.

## Treatment

There are many different types of treatment for NSCLC. Treatment depends on
the stage of the cancer.

Surgery is the common treatment for NSCLC that has not spread beyond nearby
lymph nodes. The surgeon may remove:

    * One of the lobes of the lung (lobectomy)
    * Only a small part of the lung (wedge or segment removal)
    * The entire lung (pneumonectomy) 

Some people need chemotherapy. Chemotherapy uses drugs to kill cancer cells
and stop new cells from growing. Treatment may be done in the following ways:

    * Chemotherapy alone is often used when the cancer has spread outside the lung (stage IV).
    * It may also be given before surgery or radiation to make those treatments more effective. This is called neoadjuvant therapy.
    * It may be given after surgery to kill any remaining cancer. This is called adjuvant therapy.
    * Chemotherapy is usually given through a vein (by IV). Or, it may be given by pills. 

Controlling symptoms and preventing complications during and after
chemotherapy is an important part of care.

Targeted therapy may be used to treat NSCLC. Targeted therapy uses drugs zero
in on specific targets (molecules) in or on cancer cells. These targets play a
role in how cancer cells grow and survive. Using these targets, the drug
disables the cancer cells so they cannot spread.

Radiation therapy can be used with chemotherapy if surgery is not possible.
Radiation therapy uses powerful x-rays or other forms of radiation to kill
cancer cells. Radiation may be used to:

    * Treat the cancer, along with chemotherapy, if surgery is not possible
    * Help relieve symptoms caused by the cancer, such as breathing problems and swelling
    * Help relieve cancer pain when the cancer has spread to the bones 

Controlling symptoms during and after radiation to the chest is an important
part of care.

The following treatments are mostly used to relieve symptoms caused by NSCLC:

    * Laser therapy -- A small beam of light burns and kills cancer cells.
    * Photodynamic therapy -- Uses a light to activate a drug in the body, which kills cancer cells. 

## Support Groups

You can ease the stress of illness by joining a cancer support group. Sharing
with others who have common experiences and problems can help you not feel
alone.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

The outlook varies. Most often, NSCLC grows slowly. In some cases, it can grow
and spread quickly and cause rapid death. The cancer may spread to other parts
of the body, including the bone, liver, small intestine, and brain.

Chemotherapy has been shown to prolong life and improve the quality of life in
some people with stage IV NSCLC.

Cure rates are related to the stage of disease and whether you are able to
have surgery.

    * Stage I and II cancers have the highest survival and cure rates.
    * Stage III cancer can be cured in some cases.
    * Stage IV cancer that has returned is almost never cured. The goals of therapy are to extend and improve quality of life.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of lung cancer, particularly if you
smoke.

## Prevention

If you smoke, now is the time to quit. If you are having trouble quitting,
talk with yourÂ provider. There are many methods to help you quit, from
support groups to prescription medicines. Also, try to avoid secondhand smoke.

If you smoke or used to smoke, talk with your provider about getting screened
for lung cancer. To get screened, you need to have a CT scan of the chest.

## Alternative Names

Cancer - lung - non-small cell; Non-small cell lung cancer; NSCLC;
Adenocarcinoma - lung; Squamous cell carcinoma - lung

## Patient Instructions

    * Chest radiation - discharge
    * Lung surgery - discharge 

## Images

    * ![Lungs](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1103t.jpg)Lungs
    * ![Secondhand smoke and lung cancer](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19349t.jpg)Secondhand smoke and lung cancer

## References

Araujo LH, Horn L, Merritt RE, et al. Cancer of the lung: non-small cell lung
cancer and small cell lung cancer. In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Kastan MB,
Doroshow JH, Tepper JE, eds. _Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 69.

Moyer VA; US Preventive Services Task Force. Screening for lung cancer: US
Preventive Services Task Force recommendation statement. _Ann Intern Med_.
2014;160(5):330-338. PMID: 24378917 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24378917.

National Cancer Institute website. Non-small cell lung cancer treatment (PDQ)
- health professional version. www.cancer.gov/types/lung/hp/non-small-cell-
lung-treatment-pdq. Updated June 13,2019. Accessed June 18, 2019.

National Comprehensive Cancer Network website. NCCN clinical practice
guidelines in oncology (NCCN guidelines): non-small cell lung cancer. Version
1.2020. www.nccn.org/professionals/physician_gls/pdf/nscl.pdf. Updated
November 6, 2019. Accessed November 8, 2019.

Silvestri GA, Pastis NJ, Tanner NT, Jett JR. Clinical aspects of lung cancer.
In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook
of Respiratory Medicine_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 53.

## Review Date 1/16/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in Hematology
and Medical Oncology, Longsteet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Internal review and update on
07/10/2019 by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway,
Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team. Editorial update:
11/08/2019.

![Lung Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LungCancer_thumb.jpg)Lung Cancer
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

