Link: https://medlineplus.gov/lipidmetabolismdisorders.html    
                                Description: Lipids include fats, oils, and cholesterol. Disorders like Gaucher disease and Tay-Sachs cause problems with how your body uses lipids. Read more.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

Menu

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools
  * About MedlinePlus

Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Health Topics
  * Drugs & Supplements
  * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Health Topics ->

Lipid Metabolism Disorders

URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/lipidmetabolismdisorders.html

#  Lipid Metabolism Disorders

On this page

### Basics

  * Summary
  * Start Here
  * Diagnosis and Tests

### Learn More

  * Specifics
  * Genetics

### See, Play and Learn

  * No links available

### Research

  * Clinical Trials
  * Journal Articles

### Resources

  * No links available

### For You

  * No links available

## Summary

Metabolism is the process your body uses to make energy from the food you eat.
Food is made up of proteins, carbohydrates, and fats. Chemicals in your
digestive system (enzymes) break the food parts down into sugars and acids,
your body's fuel. Your body can use this fuel right away, or it can store the
energy in your body tissues. If you have a metabolic disorder, something goes
wrong with this process.

Lipid metabolism disorders, such as Gaucher disease and Tay-Sachs disease,
involve lipids. Lipids are fats or fat-like substances. They include oils,
fatty acids, waxes, and cholesterol. If you have one of these disorders, you
may not have enough enzymes to break down lipids. Or the enzymes may not work
properly and your body can't convert the fats into energy. They cause a
harmful amount of lipids to build up in your body. Over time, that can damage
your cells and tissues, especially in the brain, peripheral nervous system,
liver, spleen, and bone marrow. Many of these disorders can be very serious,
or sometimes even fatal.

These disorders are inherited. Newborn babies get screened for some of them,
using blood tests. If there is a family history of one of these disorders,
parents can get genetic testing to see whether they carry the gene. Other
genetic tests can tell whether the fetus has the disorder or carries the gene
for the disorder.

Enzyme replacement therapies can help with a few of these disorders. For
others, there is no treatment. Medicines, blood transfusions, and other
procedures may help with complications.

## Start Here

  * Lipid Storage Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
  * Lipid Storage Diseases ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke) Also in Spanish

## Diagnosis and Tests

  * Genetic Testing: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * Newborn Screening: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Specifics

  * Acid Lipase Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
  * Barth Syndrome (BTHS) ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
  * Fabry Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
  * Farber's Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
  * Gangliosidoses ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
  * Gaucher Disease: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
  * Niemann-Pick Disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke)
  * Tay-Sachs Disease: MedlinePlus Health Topic ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish

## Genetics

  * Genetics Home Reference: 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: carnitine palmitoyltransferase I deficiency ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: carnitine palmitoyltransferase II deficiency ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: carnitine-acylcarnitine translocase deficiency ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: Chanarin-Dorfman syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: combined malonic and methylmalonic aciduria ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: desmosterolosis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: Fabry disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: familial hypercholesterolemia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: familial hypobetalipoproteinemia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: familial lipoprotein lipase deficiency ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: Farber lipogranulomatosis ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: long-chain 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: lysosomal acid lipase deficiency ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: malonyl-CoA decarboxylase deficiency ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: medium-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: MEGDEL syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: methylmalonic acidemia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: methylmalonic acidemia with homocystinuria ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: mucolipidosis type IV ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: neutral lipid storage disease with myopathy ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: Niemann-Pick disease ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: primary carnitine deficiency ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: rhizomelic chondrodysplasia punctata ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: short-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: sitosterolemia ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)
  * Genetics Home Reference: very long-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Library of Medicine)

## Clinical Trials

  * ClinicalTrials.gov: Lipid Metabolism Disorders ![From the National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nih.png) (National Institutes of Health)

## Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National
Library of Medicine)

  * Article: Association between serum uric acid levels and dyslipidemia in Chinese adults:...
  * Article: Intestinal Lipomatosis.
  * Article: Reduction of cardiovascular risk with icosapent ethyl (Vascepa).
  * Lipid Metabolism Disorders -- see more articles

## Topic Image

![Photograph of a doctor talking to a
patient](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Doctor_talking_to_patient.jpg)

## Stay Connected

Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?

GO

## MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA

  * Bassen-Kornzweig syndrome
  * Chylomicronemia syndrome
  * Familial lipoprotein lipase deficiency
  * Methylmalonic acid blood test
  * Methylmalonic acidemia
  * Niemann-Pick disease
  * Xanthoma

## Related Health Topics

  * Amino Acid Metabolism Disorders
  * Carbohydrate Metabolism Disorders
  * Dietary Fats
  * Metabolic Disorders

## Disclaimers

MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health
and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health
information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external
links and our quality guidelines.

  * About MedlinePlus
  * What's New
  * Site Map
  * Customer Support

  * Get updates
  * Subscribe to RSS
  * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

  * Disclaimers
  * Copyright
  * Privacy
  * Accessibility
  * Guidelines for Links
  * Viewers & Players
  * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
  * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated on 21 January 2020 Topic last reviewed: 23 August 2016

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

