Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007270.htm    
                                Description: Lung cancer is cancer that starts in the lungs.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Lung cancer

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/007270.htm

# Lung cancer

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Lung cancer is cancer that starts in the lungs.

The lungs are located in the chest. When you breathe, air goes through your
nose, down your windpipe (trachea), and into the lungs, where it flows through
tubes called bronchi. Most lung cancer begins in the cells that line these
tubes.

There are two main types of lung cancer:

    * Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is the most common type of lung cancer.
    * Small cell lung cancer (SCLC) makes up about 20% of all lung cancer cases. 

If the lung cancer is made up of both types, it is called mixed small
cell/large cell cancer.

If the cancer started somewhere else in the body and spreads to the lungs, it
is called metastatic cancer to the lung.

## Causes

Lung cancer is the deadliest type of cancer for both men and women. Each year,
more people die of lung cancer than of breast, colon, and prostate cancers
combined.

Lung cancer is more common in older adults. It is rare in people under age 45.

Cigarette smoking is the leading cause of lung cancer. The more cigarettes you
smoke per day and the earlier you started smoking, the greater your risk for
lung cancer. There is no evidence that smoking low-tar cigarettes lowers the
risk.

Lung cancer can also affect people who have never smoked.

Secondhand smoke (breathing the smoke of others) increases your risk for lung
cancer.

The following may also increase your risk for lung cancer:

    * Exposure to asbestos
    * Exposure to cancer-causing chemicals such as uranium, beryllium, vinyl chloride, nickel chromates, coal products, mustard gas, chloromethyl ethers, gasoline, and diesel exhaust
    * Exposure to radon gas
    * Family history of lung cancer
    * High levels of air pollution
    * High levels of arsenic in drinking water
    * Radiation therapy to the lungsÂ 

## Symptoms

Early lung cancer may not cause any symptoms.

Symptoms depend on the type of cancer you have, but may include:

    * Chest pain
    * Cough that does not go away
    * Coughing up blood
    * Fatigue
    * Losing weight without trying
    * Loss of appetite
    * Shortness of breath
    * Wheezing

Other symptoms that may also occur with lung cancer, often in the late stages:

    * Bone pain or tenderness
    * Eyelid drooping
    * Facial paralysis
    * Hoarseness or changing voice
    * Joint pain
    * Nail problems
    * Shoulder pain
    * Swallowing difficulty
    * Swelling of the face or arms
    * Weakness

These symptoms can also be due to other, less serious conditions, so it is
important to talk to your health care provider.

## Exams and Tests

Lung cancer is often found when an x-ray or CT scan is done for another
reason.

If lung cancer is suspected, the provider will perform a physical exam and ask
about your medical history. You will be asked if you smoke. If so, you'll be
asked how much you smoke and for how long you have smoked. You will also be
asked about other things that may have put you at risk for lung cancer, such
as exposure to certain chemicals.

When listening to the chest with a stethoscope, the provider may hear fluid
around the lungs. This may suggest cancer.

Tests that may be done to diagnose lung cancer or see if it has spread
include:

    * Bone scan
    * Chest x-ray
    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * CT scan of the chest
    * MRI of the chest
    * Positron emission tomography (PET) scan
    * Sputum test to look for cancer cells
    * Thoracentesis (sampling of fluid buildup around the lung)

In most cases, a piece of tissue is removed from your lungs for examination
under a microscope. This is called a biopsy. There are several ways to do
this:

    * Bronchoscopy combined with biopsy
    * CT-scan-directed needle biopsy
    * Endoscopic esophageal ultrasound (EUS) with biopsy
    * Mediastinoscopy with biopsy
    * Open lung biopsy
    * Pleural biopsy

If the biopsy shows cancer, more imaging tests are done to find out the stage
of the cancer. Stage means how big the tumor is and how far it has spread.
Staging helps guide treatment and follow-up and gives you an idea of what to
expect.

## Treatment

Treatment for lung cancer depends on the type of cancer, how advanced it is,
and how healthy you are:

    * Surgery to remove the tumor may be done when it has not spread beyond nearby lymph nodes.
    * Chemotherapy uses drugs to kill cancer cells and stop new cells from growing.
    * Radiation therapy uses powerful x-rays or other forms of radiation to kill cancer cells. 

The above treatments may be done alone or in combination. Your provider can
tell you more about the specific treatment you will receive, depending on the
specific type of lung cancer and what stage it is.

## Support Groups

You can ease the stress of illness by joining a cancer support group. Sharing
with others who have common experiences and problems can help you not feel
alone.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

How well you do depends mostly on how much the lung cancer has spread.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if you have symptoms of lung cancer, particularly if you
smoke.

## Prevention

If you smoke, now is the time to quit. If you are having trouble quitting,
talk with your provider. There are many methods to help you quit, from support
groups to prescription medicines. Also, try to avoid secondhand smoke.

## Alternative Names

Cancer - lung

## Patient Instructions

    * Lung surgery - discharge 

## References

Araujo LH, Horn L, Merritt RE, et al. Cancer of the lung: non-small cell lung
cancer and small cell lung cancer. In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO, Kastan MB,
Doroshow JH, Tepper JE, eds. _Abeloff's Clinical Oncology._ 6th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 69.

National Cancer Institute website. Non-small cell lung cancer treatment (PDQ)
- health professional version. www.cancer.gov/types/lung/hp/non-small-cell-
lung-treatment-pdq. Updated June 13, 2019. Accessed June 18, 2019.

National Cancer Institute website. Small cell lung cancer treatment (PDQ) -
health professional version. www.cancer.gov/types/lung/hp/small-cell-lung-
treatment-pdq. Updated May 1, 2019. Accessed June 18, 2019.

Silvestri GA, Pastis NJ, Tanner NT, Jett JR. Clinical aspects of lung cancer.
In: Broaddus VC, Mason RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray and Nadel's Textbook
of Respiratory Medicine._ 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 53.

## Review Date 1/16/2018

Updated by: Richard LoCicero, MD, private practice specializing in Hematology
and Medical Oncology, Longsteet Cancer Center, Gainesville, GA. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Internal review and update on
07/10/2019 by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway,
Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Lung Cancer](https://medlineplus.gov/images/LungCancer_thumb.jpg)Lung Cancer
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![Health Topics
A-Z](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_healthtopics_card.jpg)Health Topics
A-Z _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

