Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003864.htm    
                                Description: Mediastinoscopy with biopsy is a procedure in which a lighted instrument (mediastinoscope) is inserted in the space in the chest between the lungs (mediastinum). Tissue is taken (biopsy) from any unusual    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Mediastinoscopy with biopsy

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003864.htm

# Mediastinoscopy with biopsy

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Mediastinoscopy with biopsy is a procedure in which a lighted instrument
(mediastinoscope) is inserted in the space in the chest between the lungs
(mediastinum). Tissue is taken (biopsy) from any unusual growth or lymph
nodes.

## How the Test is Performed

This procedure is done in the hospital. You will be given general anesthesia
so that you are asleep and do not feel any pain. A tube (endotracheal tube) is
placed in your nose or mouth to help you breathe.

A small surgical cut is made just above the breastbone. A device called a
mediastinoscope is inserted through this cut and gently passed into the mid-
part of the chest.

Tissue samples are taken of the lymph nodes around the airways. The scope is
then removed and the surgical cut is closed with stitches.

A chest x-ray will often be taken at the end of the procedure.

The procedure takes about 60 to 90 minutes.

## How to Prepare for the Test

You must sign an informed consent form. You will not be able to have food or
fluid for 8 hours before the test.

## How the Test will Feel

You will be asleep during the procedure. There will be some tenderness at the
site of the procedure afterward. You may have a sore throat.

Most people can leave the hospital the next morning.

In most cases, the result of the biopsy is ready in 5 to 7 days.

## Why the Test is Performed

This procedure is done to look at and then biopsy lymph nodes or any other
abnormal growths in the front part of the mediastinum, near your chest wall.

    * The most common reason is to see if lung cancer (or another cancer) has spread to these lymph nodes. This is called staging.
    * This procedure is also done for certain infections (tuberculosis, sarcoidosis) and autoimmune disorders. 

## Normal Results

Biopsies of lymph node tissues are normal and do not show signs of cancer or
infection.

## What Abnormal Results Mean

Abnormal findings may indicate:

    * Hodgkin disease
    * Lung cancer
    * Lymphoma or other tumors
    * Sarcoidosis
    * The spread of disease from one body part to another
    * Tuberculosis

## Risks

There is a risk of puncturing the esophagus, trachea, or blood vessels. In
some cases, this can lead to bleeding that can be life threatening. To fix the
injury, the breastbone would need to be split and the chest opened.

## Images

    * ![Mediastinum](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19565t.jpg)Mediastinum

## References

Cheng G-S, Varghese TK. Mediastinal tumors and cysts. In: Broaddus VC, Mason
RJ, Ernst JD, et al, eds. _Murray & Nadel's Textbook of Respiratory Medicine_.
6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2016:chap 83.

Putnam JB Jr. Lung, chest wall, pleura, and mediastinum. In: Townsend CM Jr,
Beauchamp RD, Evers BM, Mattox KL, eds. _Sabiston Textbook of Surgery_. 20th
ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 57.

## Review Date 5/15/2018

Updated by: Mary C. Mancini, MD, PhD, Director, Cardiothoracic Surgery,
Christus Highland Medical Center, Shreveport, LA. Review provided by VeriMed
Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director,
Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Biopsy](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Biopsy_thumb.jpg)Biopsy _Read more_

![Chest Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ChestInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Chest
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![Hodgkin
Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/HodgkinDisease_thumb.jpg)Hodgkin
Disease _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

