Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000022.htm    
                                Description: Your bone marrow makes cells called platelets. These cells keep you from bleeding too much by helping your blood clot. Chemotherapy, radiation, and bone marrow transplants can destroy some of your platelets.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bleeding during cancer treatment

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/patientinstructions/000022.htm

# Bleeding during cancer treatment

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Your bone marrow makes cells called platelets. These cells keep you from
bleeding too much by helping your blood clot. Chemotherapy, radiation, and
bone marrow transplants can destroy some of your platelets. This can lead to
bleeding during cancer treatment.

## What to Expect

If you do not have enough platelets, you may bleed too much. Everyday
activities can cause this bleeding. You need to know how to prevent bleeding
and what to do if you are bleeding.

## Self-care

Talk with your doctor before you take any medicines, herbs, or other
supplements. DO NOT take aspirin, ibuprofen (Motrin, Advil), naproxen (Aleve),
or other medicines unless your doctor tells you it is OK.

Be careful not to cut yourself.

    * Do not walk barefoot.
    * Use only an electric razor.
    * Use knives, scissors, and other tools carefully.
    * Do not blow your nose hard.
    * Do not cut your nails. Use an emery board instead. 

Take care of your teeth.

    * Use a toothbrush with soft bristles.
    * Do not use dental floss.
    * Talk with your doctor before getting any dental work done. You may need to delay the work or take special care if you have it done. 

Try to avoid constipation.

    * Drink plenty of fluids.
    * Eat plenty of fiber with your meals.
    * Talk with your doctor about using stool softeners or laxatives if you are straining when you have bowel movements. 

To further prevent bleeding:

    * Avoid heavy lifting or playing contact sports.
    * Do not drink alcohol.
    * Do not use enemas, rectal suppositories, or vaginal douches.

Women should not use tampons. Call your doctor if your periods are heavier
than normal.

If you cut yourself:

    * Put pressure on the cut with gauze for a few minutes.
    * Place ice on top of the gauze to help slow the bleeding.
    * Call your doctor if the bleeding does not stop after 10 minutes or if the bleeding is very heavy.

If you have a nosebleed:

    * Sit up and lean forward.
    * Pinch your nostrils, just below the bridge of your nose (about two-thirds down).
    * Place ice wrapped in a washcloth on your nose to help slow the bleeding.
    * Call your doctor if the bleeding gets worse or if it does not stop after 30 minutes.

## When to Call the Doctor

Call your doctor if you have any of these symptoms:

    * A lot of bleeding from your mouth or gums
    * A nosebleed that does not stop
    * Bruises on your arms or legs
    * Small red or purple spots on your skin (called _petechiae_ )
    * Brown or red urine
    * Black or tarry looking stools, or stools with red blood in them
    * Blood in your mucus
    * You are throwing up blood or your vomit looks like coffee grounds
    * Long or heavy periods (women)
    * Headaches that do not go away or are very bad
    * Blurry or double vision
    * Abdominal pains 

## Alternative Names

Cancer treatment - bleeding; Chemotherapy - bleeding; Radiation - bleeding;
Bone marrow transplant - bleeding; Thrombocytopenia - cancer treatment

## References

Doroshow JH. Approach to the patient with cancer. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI,
eds. _Goldman-Cecil Medicine_. 25th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders;
2016:chap 179.

National Cancer Institute website. Chemotherapy and you: support for people
with cancer. www.cancer.gov/publications/patient-education/chemotherapy-and-
you.pdf. Updated May 2007. Accessed February 16, 2018.

National Cancer Institute website. Radiation therapy and you: support for
people with cancer. www.cancer.gov/publications/patient-
education/radiationttherapy.pdf. Updated October 2016. Accessed February 16,
2018.

## Read More

    * Bone marrow transplant

## Patient Instructions

    * After chemotherapy - discharge
    * Bleeding during cancer treatment
    * Bone marrow transplant - discharge
    * Central venous catheter - dressing change
    * Central venous catheter - flushing 
    * Chemotherapy - what to ask your doctor
    * Drinking water safely during cancer treatment
    * Dry mouth during cancer treatment
    * Oral mucositis - self-care
    * Peripherally inserted central catheter - flushing
    * Radiation therapy - questions to ask your doctor
    * Safe eating during cancer treatment

## Review Date 1/31/2018

Updated by: Todd Gersten, MD, Hematology/Oncology, Florida Cancer Specialists
& Research Institute, Wellington, FL. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare
Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

## Related MedlinePlus Health Topics

    * Bleeding
    * Cancer--Living with Cancer

Browse the Encyclopedia

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

