Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001616.htm    
                                Description: Subconjunctival hemorrhage is a bright red patch appearing in the white of the eye. This condition is one of several disorders called red eye.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Subconjunctival hemorrhage

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001616.htm

# Subconjunctival hemorrhage

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Subconjunctival hemorrhage is a bright red patch appearing in the white of the
eye. This condition is one of several disorders called red eye.

## Causes

The white of the eye (sclera) is covered with a thin layer of clear tissue
called the bulbar conjunctiva. A subconjunctival hemorrhage occurs when a
small blood vessel breaks open and bleeds within the conjunctiva. The blood is
often very visible, but since it is confined within the conjunctiva, it does
not move and cannot be wiped away. The problem may occur without injury. It is
often first noticed when you wake up and look in a mirror.

Some things that may cause a subconjunctival hemorrhage include:

    * Sudden increases in pressure, such as violent sneezing or coughing
    * Having high blood pressure or taking blood thinners
    * Rubbing the eyes
    * Viral infection
    * Certain eye surgeries or injuries

A subconjunctival hemorrhage is common in newborn infants. In this case, the
condition is thought to be caused by the pressure changes across the infant's
body during childbirth.

## Symptoms

A bright red patch appears on the white of the eye. The patch does not cause
pain and there is no discharge from the eye. Vision does not change.

## Exams and Tests

The health care provider will perform a physical exam and look at your eyes.

Blood pressure should be tested. If you have other areas of bleeding or
bruising, more specific tests may be needed.

## Treatment

No treatment is needed. You should have your blood pressure checked regularly.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

A subconjunctival hemorrhage most often goes away on its own in about 2 to 3
weeks. The white of the eye may look yellow as the problem goes away.

## Possible Complications

In most cases, there are no complications. Rarely, a total subconjunctival
hemorrhage may be a sign of a serious vascular disorder in older people.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Call your provider if a bright red patch appears on the white of the eye.

## Prevention

There is no known prevention.

## Images

    * ![Eye](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/1094t.jpg)Eye

## References

Bowling B. Conjunctiva. In: Bowling B, ed. _Kanski's Clinical Ophthalmology_.
8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 5.

Guluma K, Lee JE. Ophthalmology. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M,
eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 61.

Prajna V, Vijayalakshmi P. Conjunctiva and subconjunctival tissue. In: Lambert
SR, Lyons CJ, eds. _Taylor and Hoyt's Pediatric Ophthalmology and Strabismus_.
5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 31.

## Review Date 5/1/2019

Updated by: Franklin W. Lusby, MD, ophthalmologist, Lusby Vision Institute, La
Jolla, CA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Bleeding _Read
more_

![Eye Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/EyeDiseases_thumb.jpg)Eye
Diseases _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

