Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003106.htm    
                                Description: A nosebleed is loss of blood from the tissue lining the nose. Bleeding most often occurs in one nostril only.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Nosebleed

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003106.htm

# Nosebleed

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

A nosebleed is loss of blood from the tissue lining the nose. Bleeding most
often occurs in one nostril only.

## Considerations

Nosebleeds are very common. Most nosebleeds occur because of minor irritations
or colds.

The nose contains many small blood vessels that bleed easily. Air moving
through the nose can dry and irritate the membranes lining the inside of the
nose. Crusts can form that bleed when irritated. Nosebleeds occur more often
in the winter, when cold viruses are common and indoor air tends to be drier.

Most nosebleeds occur on the front of the nasal septum. This is the piece of
the tissue that separates the two sides of the nose. This type of nosebleed
can be easy for a trained professional to stop. Less commonly, nosebleeds may
occur higher on the septum or deeper in the nose such as in the sinuses or the
base of the skull. Such nosebleeds may be harder to control. However,
nosebleeds are rarely life threatening.

## Causes

Nosebleed can be caused by:

    * Irritation due to allergies, colds, sneezing or sinus problems
    * Very cold or dry air
    * Blowing the nose very hard, or picking the nose
    * Injury to nose, including a broken nose, or an object stuck in the nose
    * Sinus or pituitary surgery (transsphenoidal)
    * Deviated septum
    * Chemical irritants including medicines or drugs that are sprayed or snorted
    * Overuse of decongestant nasal sprays
    * Oxygen treatment through nasal cannulas 

Repeated nosebleeds may be a symptom of another disease such as high blood
pressure, a bleeding disorder, or a tumor of the nose or sinuses. Blood
thinners, such as warfarin (Coumadin), clopidogrel (Plavix), or aspirin, may
cause or worsen nosebleeds.

## Home Care

To stop a nosebleed:

    * Sit down and gently squeeze the soft portion of the nose between your thumb and finger (so that the nostrils are closed) for a full 10 minutes.
    * Lean forward to avoid swallowing the blood and breathe through your mouth.
    * Wait at least 10 minutes before checking if the bleeding has stopped. Be sure to allow enough time for the bleeding to stop. 

It may help to apply cold compresses or ice across the bridge of the nose. Do
not pack the inside of the nose with gauze.

Lying down with a nosebleed is not recommended. You should avoid sniffing or
blowing your nose for several hours after a nosebleed. If bleeding persists, a
nasal spray decongestant (Afrin, Neo-Synephrine) can sometimes be used to
close off small vessels and control bleeding.

Things you can do to prevent frequent nosebleeds include:

    * Keep the home cool and use a vaporizer to add moisture to the inside air.
    * Use nasal saline spray and water-soluble jelly (such as Ayr gel) to prevent nasal linings from drying out in the winter. 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Get emergency care if:

    * Bleeding does not stop after 20 minutes.
    * Nose bleeding occurs after a head injury. This may suggest a skull fracture, and x-rays should be taken.
    * Your nose may be broken (for example, it looks crooked after a hit to the nose or other injury).
    * You are taking medicines to prevent your blood from clotting (blood thinners).
    * You have had nosebleeds in the past that needed specialist care to treat.

Call your health care provider if:

    * You or your child has frequent nosebleeds
    * Nosebleeds are not associated with a cold or other minor irritation
    * Nosebleeds occur after sinus or other surgery

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

The provider will perform a physical exam. In some cases, you may be watched
for signs and symptoms of low blood pressure from losing blood, also called
hypovolemic shockÂ (this is rare).

You may have the following tests:

    * Complete blood count
    * Nasal endoscopy (examination of the nose using a camera)
    * Partial thromboplastin time measurements
    * Prothrombin time (PT)
    * CT scan of the nose and sinuses 

The type of treatment used will be based on the cause of the nosebleed.
Treatment may include:

    * Controlling blood pressure
    * Closing the blood vessel using heat, electric current, or silver nitrate sticks
    * Nasal packing
    * Reducing a broken nose or removing a foreign body
    * Reducing the amount of blood thinner medicine or stopping aspirin
    * Treating problems that keeps your blood from clotting normally 

You may need to see an ear, nose, and throat (ENT, otolaryngologist)
specialist for further tests and treatment.

## Alternative Names

Bleeding from the nose; Epistaxis

## Images

    * ![Nosebleed](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/19677t.jpg)Nosebleed
    * ![Nosebleed](//medlineplus.gov/ency/images/ency/tnails/8897t.jpg)Nosebleed

## References

Pfaff JA, Moore GP. Otolaryngology. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill
M, eds. _Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice_. 9th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 62.

Savage S. Management of epistaxis. In: Fowler GC, ed. _Pfenninger and Fowler's
Procedures for Primary Care_. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap
205.

Simmen DB, Jones NS. Epistaxis. In: Flint PW, Haughey BH, Lund V, et al, eds.
_Cummings Otolaryngology: Head and Neck Surgery_. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 42.

## Review Date 7/16/2019

Updated by: Brent Wisse, MD, board certified in Metabolism/Endocrinology,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Bleeding _Read
more_

![Nose Injuries and
Disorders](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NoseInjuriesandDisorders_thumb.jpg)Nose
Injuries and Disorders _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

