Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001412.htm    
                                Description: An epidural hematoma (EDH) is bleeding between the inside of the skull and the outer covering of the brain (called the dura).    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Epidural hematoma

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001412.htm

# Epidural hematoma

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

An epidural hematoma (EDH) is bleeding between the inside of the skull and the
outer covering of the brain (called the dura).

## Causes

An EDH is often caused by a skull fracture during childhood or adolescence.
The membrane covering the brain is not as closely attached to the skull as it
is in older people and children younger than 2 years. Therefore, this type of
bleeding is more common in young people.

An EDH can also occur due to rupture of a blood vessel, usually an artery. The
blood vessel then bleeds into the space between the dura and the skull.

The affected vessels are often torn by skull fractures. The fractures are most
often the result of a severe head injury, such as those caused by motorcycle,
bicycle, skateboard, snow boarding, or automobile accidents.

Rapid bleeding causes a collection of blood (hematoma) that presses on the
brain. The pressure inside the head (intracranial pressure, ICP) increases
quickly. This pressure may result in more brain injury.

## Symptoms

Contact a health care provider for any head injury that results in even a
brief loss of consciousness, or if there are any other symptoms after a head
injury (even without loss of consciousness).

The typical pattern of symptoms that indicate an EDH is a loss of
consciousness, followed by alertness, then loss of consciousness again. But
this pattern may NOT appear in all people.

The most important symptoms of an EDH are:

    * Confusion
    * Dizziness
    * Drowsiness or altered level of alertness
    * Enlarged pupil in one eye
    * Headache (severe)
    * Head injury or trauma followed by loss of consciousness, a period of alertness, then rapid deterioration back to unconsciousness
    * Nausea or vomiting
    * Weakness in part of the body, usually on the opposite side from the side with the enlarged pupil 

The symptoms usually occur within minutes to hours after a head injury and
indicate an emergency situation.

Sometimes, bleeding does not start for hours after a head injury. The symptoms
of pressure on the brain also do not occur right away.

## Exams and Tests

The brain and nervous system (neurological) examination may show that a
specific part of the brain is not working well (for instance, there may be arm
weakness on one side).

The exam may also show signs of increased ICP, such as:

    * Headaches
    * Somnolence
    * Confusion
    * Nausea and vomiting

If there is increased ICP, emergency surgery may be needed to relieve the
pressure and prevent further brain injury.

A head CT scan will confirm the diagnosis of EDH, and will pinpoint the exact
location of the hematoma and any associated skull fracture. MRI may be useful
to identify small epidural hematomas from subdural ones.

## Treatment

An EDH is an emergency condition. Treatment goals include:

    * Taking measures to save the person's life
    * Controlling symptoms
    * Minimizing or preventing permanent damage to the brain 

Life support measures may be required. Emergency surgery is often necessary to
reduce pressure within the brain. This may include drilling a small hole in
the skull to relieve pressure and allow blood to drain outside the skull.

Large hematomas or solid blood clots may need to be removed through a larger
opening in the skull (craniotomy).

Medicines used in addition to surgery will vary according to the type and
severity of symptoms and brain damage that occurs.

Antiseizure medicines may be used to control or prevent seizures. Some
medicines called hyperosmotic agents may be used to reduce brain swelling.

For people on blood thinners or with bleeding disorders, treatments to prevent
further bleeding might be needed.

## Outlook (Prognosis)

An EDH has a high risk of death without prompt surgical intervention. Even
with prompt medical attention, a significant risk of death and disability
remains.

## Possible Complications

There is a risk of permanent brain injury, even if EDH is treated. Symptoms
(such as seizures) may persist for several months, even after treatment. In
time they may become less frequent or disappear. Seizures may begin up to 2
years after the injury.

In adults, most recovery occurs in the first 6 months. Usually there is some
improvement over 2 years.

If there is brain damage, full recovery isn't likely. Other complications
include permanent symptoms, such as:

    * Herniation of the brain and permanent coma
    * Normal pressure hydrocephalus, which can lead to weakness, headaches, incontinence, and difficulty walking
    * Paralysis or loss of sensation (which began at the time of the injury) 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Go to the emergency room or call 911 if symptoms of EDH occur.

Spinal injuries often occur with head injuries. If you must move the person
before help arrives, try to keep his or her neck still.

Call the provider if these symptoms persist after treatment:

    * Memory loss or problems focusing
    * Dizziness
    * Headache
    * Anxiety
    * Speech problems
    * Loss of movement in part of the body 

Go to the emergency room or call 911 in emergency if these symptoms develop
after treatment:

    * Trouble breathing
    * Seizures
    * Enlarged pupils of the eyes or the pupils are not same size
    * Decreased responsiveness
    * Loss of consciousness 

## Prevention

An EDH may not be preventable once a head injury has occurred.

To lessen the risk of head injury, use the right safety equipment (such as
hard hats, bicycle or motorcycle helmets, and seat belts).

Follow safety precautions at work and in sports and recreation. For example,
do not dive into water if the water depth is unknown or if rocks may be
present.

## Alternative Names

Extradural hematoma; Extradural hemorrhage; Epidural hemorrhage; EDH

## References

National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke website. Traumatic
brain injury: hope through research. www.ninds.nih.gov/Disorders/Patient-
Caregiver-Education/Hope-Through-Research/Traumatic-Brain-Injury-Hope-Through.
Updated July 6, 2018. Accessed August 22, 2018.

Shahlaie K, Zwienenberg-Lee M, Muizelaar JP. Clinical pathophysiology of
traumatic brain injury. In: Winn HR, ed. _Youmans and Winn Neurological
Surgery._ 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 346.

Wermers JD, Hutchison LH. Trauma. In: Coley BD, ed. _Caffey's Pediatric
Diagnostic Imaging_. 13th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019:chap 39.

## Review Date 7/9/2018

Updated by: Luc Jasmin, MD, PhD, FRCS (C), FACS, Department of Surgery,
Holston Valley Medical Center, TN; Department of Maxillofacial Surgery at
UCSF, San Francisco, CA. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also
reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial
Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Bleeding _Read
more_

![Traumatic Brain
Injury](https://medlineplus.gov/images/TraumaticBrainInjury_thumb.jpg)Traumatic
Brain Injury _Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

