Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003062.htm    
                                Description: Bleeding gums can be a sign that you have or may develop gum disease. Ongoing gum bleeding may be due to plaque buildup on the teeth. It can also be a sign of a serious medical condition.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Bleeding gums

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003062.htm

# Bleeding gums

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Bleeding gums can be a sign that you have or may develop gum disease. Ongoing
gum bleeding may be due to plaque buildup on the teeth. It can also be a sign
of a serious medical condition.

## Causes

The main cause of bleeding gums is the buildup of plaque at the gum line. This
will lead to a condition called gingivitis, or inflamed gums.

Plaque that is not removed will harden into tartar. This will lead to
increased bleeding and a more advanced form of gum and jaw bone disease known
as periodontitis.

Other causes of bleeding gums include:

    * Any bleeding disorders
    * Brushing too hard
    * Hormonal changes during pregnancy
    * Ill-fitting dentures or other dental appliances
    * Improper flossing
    * Infection, which can be either in a tooth or the gum
    * Leukemia, a type of blood cancer
    * Scurvy, a vitamin C deficiency
    * Use of blood thinners
    * Vitamin K deficiency 

## Home Care

Visit the dentist at least once every 6 months for plaque removal. Follow your
dentist's home care instructions.

Brush your teeth gently with a soft-bristle toothbrush at least twice a day.
It is best if you can brush after every meal. Also, flossing teeth twice a day
can prevent plaque from building up.

Your dentist may tell you to rinse with salt water or hydrogen peroxide and
water. DO NOT use mouthwashes that contain alcohol, which can make the problem
worse.

It can help to follow a balanced, healthy diet. Try to avoid snacking between
meals and cut down on the carbohydrates you eat.

Other tips to help with bleeding gums:

    * Have a periodontal exam.
    * DO NOT use tobacco, since it makes bleeding gums worse. Tobacco use can also mask other problems that cause bleeding of the gums.
    * Control gum bleeding by applying pressure directly on the gums with a gauze pad soaked in ice water.
    * If you have been diagnosed with a vitamin deficiency, take vitamin supplements.
    * Avoid aspirin unless your health care provider has recommended that you take it.
    * If side effects of a medicine are causing the bleeding gums, ask your provider to prescribe a different drug. Never change your medicine without first talking to your provider.
    * Use an oral irrigation device on the low setting to massage your gums.
    * See your dentist if your dentures or other dental appliances do not fit well or are causing sore spots on your gums.
    * Follow your dentist's instructions on how to brush and floss so you can avoid hurting your gums. 

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Consult your provider if:

    * The bleeding is severe or long-term (chronic)
    * Your gums continue to bleed even after treatment
    * You have other unexplained symptoms with the bleeding

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your dentist will examine your teeth and gums and ask you about the problem.
Your dentist will also ask about your oral care habits. You may also be asked
about your diet and the medicines you take.

Tests that may be performed include:

    * Blood studies such as a CBC (complete blood count) or blood differential
    * X-rays of your teeth and jawbone 

## Alternative Names

Gums - bleeding

## References

Appelbaum FR. Acute leukemias in adults. In: Niederhuber JE, Armitage JO,
Doroshow JH, Kastan MB, Tepper JE, eds. _Abeloff's Clinical Oncology_. 5th ed.
Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2014:chap 98.

Chow AW. Infections of the oral cavity, neck, and head. In: Bennett JE, Dolin
R, Blaser MJ, eds. _Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of
Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition_. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier
Saunders; 2015:chap 65.

Hayward CPM. Clinical approach to the patient with bleeding or bruising. In:
Hoffman R, Benz EJ, Silberstein LE, et al, eds. _Hematology: Basic Principles
and Practice_. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 128.

## Review Date 2/5/2018

Updated by: Ilona Fotek, DMD, MS, Dental Healing Arts, Jupiter, FL. Review
provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA,
Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M.
Editorial team.

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Bleeding _Read
more_

![Gum Disease](https://medlineplus.gov/images/GumDisease_thumb.jpg)Gum Disease
_Read more_

![NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine](https://medlineplus.gov/images/ency_mag_card.jpg)NIH MedlinePlus
Magazine _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

