Link: https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003283.htm    
                                Description: Splinter hemorrhages are small areas of bleeding (hemorrhage) under the fingernails or toenails.    
                                Keywords: None    
                                            

Skip navigation

![National Institutes of Health](https://medlineplus.gov/images/nihlogo.png)
U.S. National Library of Medicine

![MedlinePlus Trusted Health Information for
You](https://medlineplus.gov/images/m_logo.png)

The navigation menu has been collapsed.

Menu

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools
    * About MedlinePlus
Show Search

Search MedlinePlus

GO

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support

    * Health Topics
    * Drugs & Supplements
    * Videos & Tools

EspaÃ±ol

You Are Here:

Home ->

Medical Encyclopedia ->

Splinter hemorrhages

URL of this page: //medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003283.htm

# Splinter hemorrhages

To use the sharing features on this page, please enable JavaScript.

Splinter hemorrhages are small areas of bleeding (hemorrhage) under the
fingernails or toenails.

## Considerations

Splinter hemorrhages look like thin, red to reddish-brown lines of blood under
the nails. They run in the direction of nail growth.

They are named splinter hemorrhages because they look like a splinter under
the fingernail. The hemorrhages may be caused by tiny clots that damage the
small capillaries under the nails.

Splinter hemorrhages can occur with infection of the heart valves
(endocarditis). They may be caused by vessel damage from swelling of the blood
vessels (vasculitis) or tiny clots that damage the small capillaries
(microemboli).

## Causes

Causes may include:

    * Bacterial endocarditis
    * Injury to the nail 

## Home Care

There is no specific care for splinter hemorrhages. Follow your health care
provider's instructions for treating endocarditis.

## When to Contact a Medical Professional

Contact your provider if you notice splinter hemorrhages and you haven't had
any recent injury to the nail.

Splinter hemorrhages most often appear late in endocarditis. In most cases,
other symptoms will cause you to visit your provider before splinter
hemorrhages appear.

## What to Expect at Your Office Visit

Your provider will examine you to look for the cause of splinter hemorrhages.
You may be asked questions such as:

    * When did you first notice this?
    * Have you had an injury to the nails recently?
    * Do you have endocarditis, or has your provider suspected that you have endocarditis?
    * What other symptoms do you have, such as shortness of breath, fever, general ill feeling, or muscle aches?

The physical exam may include special attention to the heart and blood
circulation systems.

Laboratory studies may include:

    * Blood cultures
    * Complete blood count (CBC)
    * Erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR)

In addition, your provider may order:

    * Chest x-ray
    * ECG
    * Echocardiogram

After seeing your provider, you may want to add a diagnosis of splinter
hemorrhages to your personal medical record.

## Alternative Names

Fingernail hemorrhage

## References

Lipner SR, Scher RK. Nail signs of systemic disease. In: Callen JP, Jorizzo
JL, Zone JJ, Piette WW, Rosenbach MA, Vleugels RA, eds. _Dermatological Signs
of Systemic Disease_. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2017:chap 44.

Tosti A. Diseases of hair and nails. In: Goldman L, Schafer AI, eds. _Goldman-
Cecil Medicine_. 26th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 413.

Wright WF. Fever of unknown origin. In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds.
_Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious
Diseases_. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2020:chap 56.

## Review Date 7/11/2019

Updated by: Linda J. Vorvick, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of
Family Medicine, UW Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda
Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.

![Blood](https://medlineplus.gov/images/BloodTopics_thumb.jpg)Bleeding _Read
more_

![Endocarditis](https://medlineplus.gov/images/Endocarditis_thumb.jpg)Endocarditis
_Read more_

![Nail Diseases](https://medlineplus.gov/images/NailDiseases_thumb.jpg)Nail
Diseases _Read more_

![A.D.A.M Quality
Logo](https://ssl.adam.com/urac/AccreditationSeal_2018_2020.jpg)

A.D.A.M., Inc. is accredited by URAC, for Health Content Provider
(www.urac.org). URAC's accreditation program is an independent audit to verify
that A.D.A.M. follows rigorous standards of quality and accountability.
A.D.A.M. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online
health information and services. Learn more about A.D.A.M.'s editorial policy
editorial process and privacy policy. A.D.A.M. is also a founding member of
Hi-Ethics. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information: verify here.

The information provided herein should not be used during any medical
emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A
licensed physician should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and
all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other
sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements
of those other sites. Copyright 1997-2020, A.D.A.M., Inc. Duplication for
commercial use must be authorized in writing by ADAM Health Solutions.

![A.D.A.M
Logo](https://medlineplus.gov/spanish/ency/images/ency/ftrAdamlogo.gif)

    * About MedlinePlus
    * What's New
    * Site Map
    * Customer Support
    * Get updates
    * Subscribe to RSS
    * Follow us ![Twitter](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_twitter.png) ![Facebook](https://medlineplus.gov/images/i_share_fb.png)

    * Disclaimers
    * Copyright
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Guidelines for Links
    * Viewers & Players
    * MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
    * For Developers

U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health

Page last updated: 23 March 2020

![Return to top](https://medlineplus.gov/images/return-top.png)

